
FAIRY TALES FROM THE
GERMAN FORESTS


_BY THE SAME AUTHOR_

"The Meadows of Play"

(With an Introduction by G. K. Chesterton;
Illustrated by Edith Calvert.)

London, ELKIN MATTHEWS, Vigo Street
2s. 6d. net

[Illustration: "The Dwarf."]


[Illustration:
FAIRY TALES _from the_
GERMAN FORESTS

FRAU ARNDT]


LONDON: EVERETT & CO. LTD. 42 Essex Street, W.C.




 TO MY DAUGHTERS
 MARGARET AND BARBARA,
 AND TO MY NEPHEWS
 CHARLES AND STEPHEN JOHNSON,
 THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED


INTRODUCTORY POEM

 "The stories that the fairies told
  I learnt in English lanes of old,
  Where honeysuckle, wreathing high,
  Twined with the wild rose towards the sky,
  Or where pink-tinged anemones
  Grew thousand starred beneath the trees.

  I saw them, too, in London town,
  But sly and cautious, glancing down,
  Where in the grass the crocus grow
  And ladies ride in Rotten Row,
  St James's Park's a garden meet
  For tiny babes and fairy feet.

  But since I came to Germany,
  The good folk oftener talk to me;
  I find them in their native home
  When through the forest depths I roam,
  When through the trees blue mountains shine,
  The heart of fairyland is mine."




WHAT'S THE USE OF IT?

A CHRISTMAS STORY


In a village that was close to the great forest, though it had already
become the suburb of a large town, lived a little girl named Hansi
Herzchen. She was the seventh child of a family of seven, and she lived
at No 7 ---- Street. So you see she was a lucky child, for seven is
always a lucky number; but nothing had happened to prove her luck as
yet.

Her father was a clerk in the post office at the neighbouring town. He
would have found it hard to make two ends meet with seven little mouths
to fill, but that his wife had brought him substantial help. She was the
daughter of a well-to-do farmer peasant and had a considerable dowry
when she married. Moreover she was extremely thrifty and industrious.
She never spent a halfpenny without carefully considering if a farthing
would not do as well. Better Â£1 in the pocket than 19s. 11-1/2d., she
used to say. She drove wonderful bargains at the market. She had no
eyes for the artistic and ornamental, though her house was so spick and
span, that it was good to look at in its cleanliness and order. She had
stored up everything she had possessed since her early youth, and was
said to use pins that were at least twenty years old. She managed to put
everything to use, and the boys' knickers were sometimes made of queer
materials.

One expression little Hansi often heard at home and that was the word
"_useful_." When she brought in a fresh bunch of darling, pink-tipped
daisies and wanted to find a corner for them and a tiny drop of water to
put them in, the whole family would exclaim: "Throw them away, what do
you want with those half-dead weeds; they're of no use." If one of the
neighbours gave her a ball or toy, it was the same story: "We've no room
for such rubbish here." Each child possessed a money-box, and every coin
was immediately put in. They had never had a penny to _spend_ in their
lives.

The garden was planted solely with vegetables and potatoes and herbs of
the most useful character. The scarlet beans in summer, however, would
brighten it up, and field poppies and dandelions sprang up in a quite
miraculous way to Hansi's delight. For in each flower was a jolly little
fairy, who talked to her and told her stories, because of her being a
seventh child and living at No. 7. Perhaps, too, because Hansi's natural
disposition made her look out for wonders, and her loving heart included
the field flowers among her friends.

Christmas was coming on; a pig had been killed. Hansi's father and
mother and big brother Paul stayed up all night making sausages, and the
children had sausage soup for dinner during the next week.

In preparation for Christmas, Hansi's mother baked large cakes (called
Stollen) of a plain quality, with currants few and far between. Food had
become very expensive during the last few years, and no one could deny
that seven children were a handful.

She went in to town and returned by electric tram, with the useful
things that were intended for Christmas presents for the children,
namely:

 A pair of boots for Paul,
 A school-cape for Marie,
 Handkerchiefs for Fritz with his name embroidered
     on them in red cotton,
 Stockings for Emma,
 A warm hood for Gretchen,
 An oilcloth pinafore for Karlchen, who had a special
     talent for getting dirty,
 And lastly a new pinafore for Hansi.

"Now we might be said to have everything ready for Christmas," said Mrs
Herzchen, on her return home, "if it were not for the Christmas tree. I
suppose we shall have to pay at least one and six for it, and then there
are the candles and apples, balls and sweets. It does seem absurd to
waste good money on such rubbish. What can be the use of it?"

She talked away in this manner, until she made up her mind to do without
the tree for once.

"Your father has no time to see about it," she said to the children. "He
is taken up with looking after other people's rubbishing letters and
parcels, and I can't be bothered--so put the idea out of your heads, you
won't get a tree this year."

The seven children felt very indignant; for it is almost a disgrace in
Germany to have no tree; it is worse than going without a pudding on
Christmas Day in England. The very poorest families manage somehow to
have their tree to light on Christmas Eve. Still they were trained to
implicit obedience and respect for their mother, and did not dare
grumble much openly.

Mrs Herzchen did not consult her husband about it; so he expected his
tree as usual. The good woman felt rather uncomfortable, as if she had
either done something wrong, or omitted doing what was right; but she
justified herself by saying continually to herself "What's the use of
it?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hansi dreamt that night of a beautiful Christmas tree that reached up to
the sky and was covered with shining silver, like cobwebs in the frost,
and lit by real stars. She determined that somehow or other they should
have their Christmas tree as usual.

When she came out of school at eleven o'clock, she trotted along in the
opposite way to home, along the wide high road leading to the woods,
with the twisted apple-trees on either side. She made a little bobbing
curtsy, and said "good day" to everyone she met who noticed her at all;
for she had been taught to be polite and friendly.

The ground was frozen and sparkled brightly; the air brought the fresh
colour into her cheeks. She had on a warm hood and cape and a woollen
scarf--for her mother was kind-hearted at the bottom and looked well
after their material comforts. Hansi's pretty fair curls peeped out from
under the red hood, her blue eyes with their dark lashes were more
starry than usual from excitement.

The fir woods looked purple-black against the white fields, and as she
came near, she saw the fir-trees covered with silver hoar frost "almost
like the tree in my dream," she thought. Her heart beat faster for a
moment as she entered the shade of the solemn evergreen trees, but she
did not feel naughty to be running away from home. She felt rather as
if she were fulfilling a mission that had been laid upon her.

Meanwhile her mother was worrying and wondering what could have happened
that her little girl did not return at the usual time. Then she
remembered that Hansi often went home with her friend Barbara Arndt, and
then they did their lessons together before dinner. That doubtless
accounted for her non-appearance.

Hansi wandered on and on, and the woods seemed deserted. She picked up
fir cones and beech nuts and acorns and filled her pinafore with them,
also frosted fern leaves and dry grasses exquisitely outlined with hoar
frost went into her apron.

At last she stopped before a little fir-tree. This was just the
beautiful little tree she wanted. It spread out its branches
symmetrically on all sides, and was slender and straight at the top.
"That will just do for me! If only I could get it home," she thought.
She tugged at it with her little hands, dropping some of her treasures,
but of course it would not move. Just then she heard something stir, and
looking round she saw a squirrel peeping at her from behind a big
oak-tree near by. This was a wonder in itself if she had known; for
squirrels are usually fast asleep in the cold weather, and only wake
once or twice to eat some of their store of nuts.

"O, Mr Squirrel, can't you help me," Hansi said. Off he went, round and
round the trunk, and then suddenly, with a great spring and his tail
spread out for a sail, he alighted on Hansi's tree. He stared at her in
a friendly way, and then stretched out one of his dear little paws and
offered her a nut, politely cracking it for her first with his sharp
teeth which had grown very long whilst he was asleep. She ate it at
once, but looked anxious. "O, Mr Squirrel, do cut down this tree for me,
and help me to carry it home," she said, "or else we shall have no
Christmas tree, and that would be _dreadful_!"

Her eyes filled with tears as she spoke. Mr Squirrel looked at her with
his bright eyes, twisted round suddenly, like a cat trying to catch its
own tail, and offered her another nut.

"O, Mr Squirrel, _do_," she said again.

He offered her a third nut, and then he whistled shrilly; it sounded
more like a baby crying than a whistle. Then to her surprise, as she
looked down the wood path, Hansi saw a troop of little men, such as you
see on Christmas cards in Germany, with red caps and green jackets and
wooden shoes turned up at the toes. "Real Heinzelmen and no mistake,"
thought Hansi delightedly, "they can help me, if anyone can." She
counted them, they were seven in number, like Snowdrop's dwarfs. They
made quite a noise as they marched up in order, whistling a merry tune.
When they saw Hansi, they took off their red caps, and their white hair
flew about them like a mist, till Hansi could hardly see them any more.
The squirrel screamed and shouted at them, and they answered him; but
Hansi could not understand at first what it was all about. She thought
they must be talking English; she knew a lady who lived near them, and
who could only talk English, poor thing. All of a sudden the earth
trembled--was it an earthquake? Hansi held tight on to the fir-tree,
though its needles hurt her hands. All she saw was the seven little men
disappearing into the ground down a long slide such as firemen use, when
they are called suddenly from sleep, and are carried by a new mechanical
apparatus direct from one floor to the other. The earth closed up again,
and Hansi thought it must be all a dream; but in two seconds they were
back again with silver hatchets and silver pails. With the hatchets they
immediately began to hack away at the tree. They made tremendous
efforts, and became quite red in the face. The last moment before it was
finally felled, the squirrel bounded off, and tossed a nut to Hansi, who
caught it cleverly in her pinafore.

"Dear little men," she said, "may I have the tree? Will you bring it
home for me, and I will give you all my Christmas cake? But I have
nothing to hang on it, and make it pretty," she continued. The dwarfs
began to chatter again like so many girls, all trying to say the same
thing at once. Then they marched along, dragging the tree with them.

"O, Mr Dwarf, that's the wrong way home, I'm sure," said Hansi. But she
followed them all the same. They came to where a crystal stream leapt
over a little group of rocks. The dwarfs held their buckets under the
cascade, and caught some drops. The drops turned into silver fish, each
with a little loop on the end of its tail, all ready to hang on the
tree.

They then took Hansi's pine cones and ferns and grasses, and even
collected the frozen cobwebs from the bushes and let the spray from the
waters fall on them, and lo and behold the most exquisite gems were
ready for the decoration of the Christmas tree.

"You live at No 7, and you are seven years old," said the eldest of the
dwarfs, addressing Hansi. ("However _could_ he have known that?" she
thought.) "Perhaps you can tell me what seven times seven makes?"

Hansi considered a moment. "No, we have not got so far as that in our
arithmetic," she replied. "_Twice_ seven is fourteen, that I know."

"Seven times seven is forty-nine and is the square of seven," said the
dwarf. "Always remember that, for it is a most important fact in
magic!"

Rummaging in his pocket, he took out a note-book and handed a leaf to
her with this diagram and inscription on it

                 To Hansi
               . . . . . . .
               . . . . . . .
  well-wisher  . . . . . . .  from her
               . . . . . . .
               . . . . . . .
               . . . . . . .
               . . . . . . .
                friend and

                     _Signed_--HIMSELF!

"Thank you _very_ much," said Hansi, feeling duly impressed, and she
never forgot this difficult fact in the multiplication table again,
although she didn't quite understand the diagram, and in fact lost it on
the way home.

The dwarfs set up the tree on a clear part of the path, and made a
little stand for it of boughs cleverly intertwined and moss between.
With many a hop, skip and jump of delight, they hung the silver fish and
cones and nuts on it; the cobwebs spread themselves out all over the
tree. Then they took red holly berries, and stuck them on the boughs
where they turned into red candles. All red and silver was this
loveliest of Christmas trees!

When it was finished, there was a momentary thrill, and they all cried
"Ah!" in tones of wonder.

Then Hansi noticed that a noble herd of deer had approached; the gentle
creatures were looking on with the deepest interest.

The woodbirds came flying from all directions, and sang as if it were
summer.

"Dear little men, I think I really ought to be going home," said Hansi
anxiously.

"Come along then," said Himself. "_You_ must go back along the high road
as you came; we are going to play hide-and-seek; but don't be afraid,
you shall have your tree all right, even if it disappears sometimes."

They now marched along in the homeward direction; but as soon as they
came to the road leading out of the woods they vanished without a word
of leave-taking. However, Hansi had not gone far down the road, when she
saw a Christmas tree that appeared to be walking by itself across the
fields. Other people noticed it too, from the road, and thought how
queer it looked. "But _of course_, there is someone behind carrying it,"
they said to themselves, and thought no more of the matter. People
expect the usual before the unusual, naturally enough, and yet sometimes
the unusual is the most probable, as in this case.

Hansi was late for dinner, and had a fine scolding.

"At all events, I suppose you have done your lessons," said her mother.

"No, mother, I'm afraid not."

"Well, I never, playing again, I suppose? Now, what _can_ be the use of
playing, I should like to know?"

This was an exceptionally stupid question; for most people know that
little folk cannot grow mentally without play, any more than flowers can
grow without sunshine. "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy," is
not only a proverb, but it is true as well.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Christmas Eve. Hansi trembled with excitement. "What's the use of
getting so lively, Hansi?" said her big brother Paul despondently. "You
know quite well that we are not to have any tree this year. I shall get
a new pair of boots, and you a pinafore; these we should have to have
anyway. That's not what I call a merry Christmas."

"But the bells are ringing, don't you hear them? and don't you think you
can see just a glimmer of silver through the door?" said Hansi.

The children looked--well, really, perhaps there was a tree there after
all.

Just then their father came in tired, but jolly. "Is everything ready?
It is late, I have been detained so long," he said. "Can we go in at
once?"

"I haven't got a tree this year," whispered his wife in an anxious
voice. "I thought we couldn't afford it. What's the use of a Christmas
tree? We can spend our money in a more practical way!"

"What nonsense. No Christmas tree! but of course you are joking," said
her husband. "I will slip in, and light the candles." And with these
words he disappeared into the inner room, now so mysterious to the
waiting children.

Poor Mrs Herzchen nearly began to cry. If only she had not been so
silly! Never, never would she neglect to get a tree again! She ought to
have considered other people's prejudices, and Christmas--O well,
Christmas only comes once a year.

"I've got a surprise for mother," whispered Gretel, aged ten. "I am
going to recite a Christmas poem." "And I am going to tell the Christmas
story from the Bible," said Hansi. "I have made a letter-box for
father," said Fritz.

"Hush, hush! the bells are ringing--don't you hear them across the
snow?" the children whispered to one another. "But what is that other
bell, so soft, so musical and clear!" "That is the summons for us all to
enter," said Paul.

The door flew open, and there stood the most lovely Christmas tree they
had ever seen or imagined, all dazzling with silver; silver cones,
silver fish, silver nuts and acorns, and red candles, and over all an
exquisitely spun cobweb of frost. "That's my surprise for you all," said
Hansi, who could hardly contain herself for joy. "I found the tree, and
the dear, darling Heinzelmen brought it home for me."

Mrs Herzchen was speechless with astonishment, and her husband not less
so. "How very extravagant," they said, "but how elegant and beautiful!
Who can have given it to us?"

But now the children began to sing the sweet German carol sung in every
house on Christmas Eve: "O peaceful night, O holy night," and then, in
her earnest, childish way, Hansi told the story of the birth of the
Christ-child in the Manger of Bethlehem.

Gretel then stood up eagerly to recite the carol she had learnt at
school.

  THE CHILDREN'S KING.

 "Dear children come
    On Christmas night,
  Put on your gowns
    Of purest white.

  Speak not a word
    Until you see
  The sweet Christ child
    On Mary's knee.

  There lies the Babe
    An Infant frail.
  Is this the King
    Whom nations hail?

  A helpless King!
    His mother's arm
  Must hold him safe
    From threatened harm.

  A tender King,
    Most young and sweet,
  With dimpled hands
    And tiny feet!

  A Baby King:
    Yet cherubim
  Veil their bright eyes
    To look on Him.

  A mighty King!
    For God above
  Has crowned Him Lord
    And King of Love.

  Come kneel and pray,
    Ye children dear,
  The children's King
    Is lying here!"

A glow of warmth and happiness illumined the whole family, and they felt
nearer to one another than ever before. The tears actually came into
their mother's eyes, when she realised that they had so nearly missed
this moment of supreme joy.

She felt a little ashamed of her presents, and for once in a way
suspected herself of having been _too_ sensible. "We are not so very
poor after all," she thought. "I might have bought a few toys that would
have delighted the children's hearts, and not have cost much money. But
now it is too late!"

But to her surprise, she did not see her presents at all. For each child
there was a gingerbread cake with his or her name on it, and then the
most lovely surprises--a beautiful doll for Hansi with real eyelashes,
fretwork tools for Paul, a doll's kitchen for Gretel, and so on. For
every one of the family there was some delightful gift.

"Thank you, thank you, dear Heinzelmen," said Hansi, clasping her hands
in ecstasy.

There was a big paper parcel addressed to Mrs Herzchen in a very queer
handwriting. She opened it with much excitement, thinking it would
contain a silk dress, at least. But lo and behold, all the presents that
she had intended for her children, tied together with red tape and a
card between, on which this verse was written:

 "Useful things
    For little folk
  Are sensible,
    But not a joke."
            _Signed_ HIMSELF!

How the children laughed! and even Mrs Herzchen laughed too, though she
felt silly and a little disappointed. "It is all very well to play
tricks on me," she said. "Just look at the MÃ¼ller children next door.
They have plenty of toys and are always sucking sweets; but they never
have comfortable, warm clothes on, and they look half fed."

"Of course, mother, you are right," said the children, "and you were
really joking about the tree. We have never had one _half_ so lovely!"

Mrs Herzchen felt rather embarrassed at this praise. She called her
husband's attention to the things on the tree. "They can't be made of
chocolate," she said, trying to bite off the corner of a fir cone. It
was quite hard. "I do believe they are all solid silver!" she said.

On closer examination, they found a little lion imprinted on each which
proved them without doubt to be of real silver.

"I shall sell them at once, or they may vanish away," she said.

"I should strongly advise you not to do so," her husband replied, and
the children said, "Oh Mother, do let us keep them always, they are so
beautiful?"

"But of what use are they?" said the incorrigible mother who, you see,
was not yet quite cured.

Meanwhile the story was noised abroad that Hansi had found a treasure in
the forest.

The very next day, Christmas Day, as they were eating their goose,
stuffed with apples, there was a ring at the bell--in walked a very
pompous Prussian policeman with fierce moustaches.

"Mrs Herzchen here?" he asked abruptly.

"What do _you_ want?" asked that lady, much indignant at being disturbed
during her Christmas dinner.

"Young person answering to the name of Hansi Herzchen here?"

"Yes, sir. Please, sir, that's me," said Hansi, rising and curtsying,
and growing very red.

The policeman produced a paper in which he entered all sorts of
memoranda.

"_Age and date of birth?_" he demanded of Hansi.

"Seven years old, _of course_," answered Hansi. "My birthday is on
February 27th, if you want to know. It was on a Sunday last year."

"That's beside the question." He looked severe.

"February 27th, 1897," said Hansi, prompted by her mother.

_Residence--temporary or otherwise ----._

_Baptism ---- date of ----._

_Vaccinated ----._

All these facts Hansi's mother supplied at once. They are so constantly
demanded in Germany that she had them always ready at hand, tied up in
seven different packets for each child.

_Married or single?_

Here Hansi giggled, and he entered solemnly the word "_spinster_."

"Is that something _horrid_?" asked Hansi anxiously.

"No, it only means unmarried," said Paul laughing. "_What_ a fool he
is!"

_Occupation?_

"Please sir, I go to school and learn my lessons, but I play a good deal
too."

"We will write 'spinster,'" he said, frowning fiercely.

"Now listen to me, child, if you do not wish to go to prison." The whole
family shuddered with horror.

"Take all those silver things off the tree. They are 'found treasure,'
and belong to the State. You ought to have declared them at once, and
saved me all this trouble," he said.

Hansi began to cry.

Mrs Herzchen was very angry, "Why don't you mind your own business?" she
said. "These things are our property. You will come and demand the
clothes off our backs next."

"Be thankful that I do not accuse you of _stealing_ these valuables,"
answered the fellow in a terrible voice.

"But are you sure they are not chocolate after all?" he said. "They look
remarkably like it, covered with silver paper, you know."

He examined them carefully and ejaculating, "Well, I never," tossed them
all into a leather wallet that he had brought with him.

Mrs Herzchen poured forth such a storm of abuse, that he threatened her
with an action for libel; but she literally turned him out of doors. Her
parting words were: "Get out! Go along and make a fool of yourself if
you like."

Some days afterwards, the man took his treasures to the office and gave
them up with a self-important flourish, only to be laughed at for his
pains. The cones were just common, ordinary fir cones, and the silver
fish had turned into little dead trout, smelling very unpleasant.

He chucked them all away in the street, and this was an episode in his
dignified career that he did not like to be reminded of.

       *       *       *       *       *

Although Hansi's mother still always preferred useful things to artistic
and ornamental ones, still she realised that the useful and ornamental
may often be combined, and as she dearly loved her children, and saved
up money merely on their account, she determined that they should have a
merry Christmas every year, without any special help from the kind
little Heinzelmen.

And did Hansi give the cake to her dwarf friends as she had promised to
do? Why, of course, she did. The children went all together to the
forest on New Year's Eve, and found the actual spot where the tree had
stood. They placed a large piece of cake on the old stump. But they did
not see the Heinzelmen or even the squirrel, although they repeated
seven times seven is forty-nine in the hope of attracting them.

Now a dear little Heinzelman, whom I met out for a walk, told me this
story "himself"; but he vanished at this point, and so must I. I wish
Hansi and all her brothers and sisters a very merry Christmas, and so, I
am sure, do you.




THE ENGINEER AND THE DWARFS


A tunnel had been dug through a crag which had hitherto been considered
as a serious obstacle in the railway route; the light now shone through
at the farther end. There was a shout of joy from the tired workmen. The
air had been stifling in the tunnel; the work was hard and dangerous;
several men had been killed in detaching portions of rock that had been
loosened by dynamite. It was a great relief to have got through. Now
the walls would have to be made smooth with cement--indeed the men had
already begun this work at the other end--and the tunnel tested for
greater security. Then the express train could run through directly,
instead of being obliged to shunt backwards and forwards in a way that
made it very uncomfortable for people who did not like sitting with
their backs to the engine.

The young engineer, Karl Hammerstein, who had been supervising the
men's work, was glad enough to find himself in the fresh air. His head
ached violently, the oppression of the atmosphere had well-nigh
overpowered him.

The mountain was clothed on this side with tall forest trees; the
drooping firs offered an inviting shade. It was seven o'clock in the
evening, the men were packing up their tools to go home. They would be
obliged to march back through the tunnel; for there was no way round,
except through the wildest forest with a tangled undergrowth of brambles
and ferns. But they had their lamps, and did not mind the tunnel; it was
familiar enough to them, who had worked in it for months.

Meanwhile Karl, who was dead-beat, stretched himself out under the
trees, covered himself with his cloak, and fell fast asleep, meaning
only to rest a minute or two, before he also set off home.

It was late when he awoke; the full moon was shining. He felt quite
dazed. Where could he be?

He had slept in many queer little rooms when he was travelling; but they
always had a window and a door. Where was the window? Ugh--he
shivered--it was cold. Then an unreasoning terror took hold of him: he
was only half-awake as yet. What could that dreadful gap be in the wall
of his room, blacker than the darkness? Surely it was a bogey hole
leading down to the bottomless pit? The next minute he laughed at his
fears, as we usually do when we come safely out of nightmare land and
feel the earth--or bed beneath us again.

He saw that it was the mouth of the tunnel, and glancing up he saw the
giant fir-tree under which he had been sleeping with outstretched arms
above him in the light of the moon.

"Well--I never! what a dunderhead I am!" he said to himself--"fancy
sleeping like that, why such a thing has never happened to me before! I
had meant to go to have supper and stay the night at the new hotel in
Elm. I have heard the landlord's daughter is an uncommonly pretty girl!"

"Heigho!" he went on, stretching himself, "there's nothing for it, but
to walk home. I might wait a long time before a motor-car came to pick
me up here!"

Then he remembered with a sudden start that there was only one possible
way back to Elm, and that was through the tunnel. It was not a very
pleasant idea to walk back alone through the dark, oppressive tunnel at
midnight; luckily he had his lantern with him.

"How could I have been such an idiot!" he muttered to himself again. He
found some bread and cheese in his pocket, which he ate with a good
appetite. His headache had gone, and he felt much refreshed after his
sleep. Then he put on his cloak, lighted the lantern, and set out
cheerfully to walk through the tunnel.

He had not gone far into the black darkness, when he thought he heard
voices whispering and talking not far away from him; then he distinctly
felt something or somebody brush past him.

"Hullo, who's there?" he called out. Complete silence. He was not easily
frightened; but his heart began to beat quicker than usual. "Well, if
it's robbers or tramps, they won't find much to rob on me," he thought;
for he had only a few shillings in his pocket for his night's lodging.

It was probably a bat that had strayed in at the opening, he decided.
Suddenly he came to a standstill. Right across the way was a mass of
freshly fallen earth and rock that quite obstructed his further
progress. "Well this is a pretty fix to be in. How aggravating!" he said
to himself, and leant for a moment against the wall of the tunnel, to
consider what would be best to do. The wall instantly gave way, he
stumbled, bruised his arm against a sharp corner of the rock, and his
lantern went out. At the same time he heard a sound resembling the
slamming of a door. "Donnerwetter!" he exclaimed--a mild German swear
which means literally "thunder-weather!"--"whatever shall I do now?" He
had a box of matches in his pocket and soon succeeded in relighting the
lantern.

"There is nothing for it, but to go back again to where I started from,
and wait for daybreak," he thought.

By this time he had become confused, and had lost the sense of
direction; but there _could_ be only one way back. So he tramped along a
long winding passage that he took to be the excavated tunnel. "How
curious, I could have been certain that the tunnel was much wider, and
more direct than this. Can I be still dreaming?" he thought.

Suddenly he was startled and astonished to come on a flight of steps
leading downwards. There had certainly been no stairs in the tunnel! He
saw too that the walls were painted in a decorative way like some of the
Catacombs in Rome; only these were far more elaborate. "I'm in for an
adventure, I must be lost in the heart of the mountain," he thought.
"Perhaps I shall come upon a robber's cave, or gipsies may be hiding in
these rocks; it is a good thing that I have this pretty little fellow
with me," and he touched the revolver in his breast pocket. He then
observed in front of him a faint light, other than that of his lantern
and whistled softly with astonishment, as he saw that the way opened out
into a cave or vault. A few steps more, and he found himself in an
exquisite, though tiny hall, with an arched ceiling supported by pillars
of red granite. The walls and ceiling were beautifully inlaid with
mosaic work in gold and coloured stones, like the interior of St Mark's,
Venice, and seemed to be of great antiquity, though of this he could not
be certain.

The light was so dim that what might have been the brilliant effect of
the whole, was lost, and the young engineer thought to himself
involuntarily: "This ought to be lit up by electric light--it would look
quite different then!" As he was deliberating how electric light might
be laid on, a door in the wall opened, and a number of little dwarf men
trooped in. They did not see him at first; for he was standing behind a
pillar. They settled themselves down on benches that were arranged in a
semicircle, and one of them with an important air mounted a raised dais
facing them. He was just beginning to speak with the words: "Gentlemen
of the Committee," when they caught sight of the stranger standing in
the centre of the hall, lantern in hand. They gave a cry of alarm, and
were just going to scuttle away like frightened rabbits, when Karl
called out, "Hi--Ho there--Gentlemen of the Committee--good Sirs--don't
run away. I won't harm you--_Christmas Tree_."

Now Christmas Tree is the most solemn oath among the dwarfs--it is
equivalent to swearing on the Bible with us. How Karl knew this, he did
not know; it came to him on the inspiration of the minute. Perhaps his
grandmother had told him stories in his childhood about the dwarf men,
in which it occurred.

It had an instantaneous effect on the dwarfs who stood still at once.
"But you are one of the bad men who are building the tunnel," they cried
out. "Aha--we can spoil your little game, my good fellow, we can smash
you and your snorting old dragon who is coming here to devour us, into
pieces. We can throw rocks on the line--Aha!"

"We have often watched you--though you were not aware of our presence,"
said the chairman. "We had just called a committee meeting to decide
what is to be done about this matter of the tunnel."

"Now you know it is all nonsense about the dragon," said Karl
persuasively, as if he were talking to children. "You have heard of
trains, haven't you? You are not so behind the times as all that!"

"_Some_ of us have seen the dragon and even ridden in him," said Mr
Chairman. "There is a famous story about that; but the majority still
look upon the railway with suspicion and even distrust. We only ask to
be let alone, and not be interfered with by meddling mortals," he said
in a gruff voice. "What do we need with you? Our civilization and our
history are more ancient even than that of India or Egypt, and from us
the human race is descended."

"I tell you what," said Karl, "I could put you up to a thing or two for
all that. We live in Modern Europe, you know, and not in ancient Egypt.
Now, for instance, why is this beautiful hall, a perfect work of art in
its way, so badly illuminated!"

"Badly illuminated! Why, what do you mean?" cried the little men
indignantly. "Do you not see our glow-worms hanging in festoons on the
walls?"

"O, I say, _glow-worms_! in the twentieth century, that's rather strong,
you know! what you want, is electric light."

"What's that?" said the dwarfs curiously.

"You have only to press a little button on the wall, like this," he
pressed his thumb on the wall--"and the whole place is lit up almost as
if it were day."

"We don't believe it--we don't believe it," said the little men.

"But it's true, I assure you, _Christmas Tree_," said Karl.

"Wouldn't it make our eyes blink?" said one thin little fellow.

Karl noticed that the dwarfs' eyes were small and their faces pale. Most
of them had quite white beards and hair.

"That comes of living so long underground, it is a loss of pigment,"
thought Karl. "Like a geranium that has been kept in the cellar! Now I
could fix it up for you," said the young engineer, always keenly on the
look-out for a job. "We are going to have it laid on in the tunnel."

"How much would it cost?" inquired the dwarfs.

"O, a thousand pounds or so!" said Karl carelessly. He had heard that
dwarfs were very rich, and he was a good man of business, and had his
eyes open to his interests.

"That's a great deal of money, a great deal of money!" said the little
men in chorus.

"O, as for that I am sure we could come to an agreement," said Karl. "By
the way," he went on--"do you happen to have a telephone here? I should
like to 'phone to a friend of mine and tell him where I am. It would be
such a joke."

"What's a telephone?" asked the dwarfs.

"You don't know what a telephone is! Himmel! you _are_ old-fashioned
down here--you are only half civilised!"

"Half civilised, half civilised!" repeated the dwarfs angrily, "let us
repeat our civilisation----"

"I'll tell you what a telephone is," said Karl, interrupting this burst
of eloquence. "It is a little tube connected with a wire, you put one
part of it to your ear, and then you put your mouth to the tube and say:
'No. 1280,' and then listen, and your friend will speak to you from
miles and miles away, and you can answer him."

"We don't believe it, we don't believe it!" said the unbelieving dwarfs.

"It's true for all that, _Christmas Tree_," said Karl. "I could fix that
up for you too, if you have any connection with the outer air. You must
have," he continued, sniffing, "for the air is nice and fresh here,
quite different to that in the tunnel. Have you a ventilating shaft?"

"O yes," said the little men, "we can show you that!" And they led him
out of the hall. In the passage outside was a great cleft or crevice in
the rocks such as we call in England a chine. Above it the moon shone
full and bright. A waterfall rushed down on one side; he saw ferns and
dear little plants leaning over the water, growing between the cracks of
the rocks. There were also glow-worms cunningly arranged in groups that
looked like fairy stars. On the other side, he observed to his joy rough
steps leading upwards cut in the solid rock. He sighed a sigh of relief,
here at least was the way out.

He regarded the pretty sight with the eye of the professional engineer,
rather than that of the artist. "That must be a stiff climb for you
little men up there," he said. "Now if you had a lift!"

"What's that?" asked the dwarfs eagerly.

"It's a little room that goes up and down when you pull a wire rope."

"We don't believe it, we don't believe it," said the sceptical gnomes
again.

"It's true nevertheless; now wouldn't it be fun to have a ride in it? I
could fix that up too, you know, if you gave me time and helped a bit
yourselves," said Karl.

"Really you poor things," he went on, "You do not seem to have heard
much of modern technical progress down here in this rabbit-burrow. I beg
your pardon I'm sure"--as they looked displeased again--"Now I am really
curious to know--have you heard of Zeppelin?"

"Zeppelin, no!--is he the King of Germany?" said the dwarf who had been
in the chair.

"Ha! ha!--King of Germany--well he _is_ nearly, in some people's eyes,"
said Karl. "He has built an airship; it is the most wonderful of all new
inventions, it floats in the air like a boat does in the water."

 "Close by it passes, by soft breezes fanned,
  Like a great steamboat straight from fairyland."

he went on in an enthusiastic way. "You can go for a ride in it any day
in Frankfurt, providing the weather is fine and you can afford to pay
Â£15!"

"Just listen to him, just listen to him!" said the dwarfs. "We don't
believe a word you have said. You are imposing on our credulity, you bad
man," and thereupon they flew at him and began to beat him with their
clubs, which were heavily weighted, and to pinch him with their long
fingers.

It might have gone hardly with him, but quick as thought Karl flashed
out the little revolver from his pocket. They seemed to know the meaning
of that modern toy; for they crouched back trembling, and not daring to
move.

"Now stop it, will you," he said, "or I shall have to shoot you, and
take you home with me to be stuffed or put into the National
Anthropological Museum. They would give me a good price for you," he
said musingly--"they would think you were The Missing Link."

"O please, Mr Hammerstein, don't shoot us--("however did the little
chaps find out my name!" thought Karl) we will believe all you say, even
if it seems the greatest nonsense to us. After all birds fly, bats fly
and fairies fly, why should not ships and trains fly?" said the
spokesman, who, I must tell you, was a relation of King Reinhold in the
Taunus Mountains and was proud of belonging to a royal family.

Karl called him Mr Query, because he was so fond of asking questions,
but so slow to take in a new fact, as indeed were all the dwarfs.

"You promised us _Christmas Tree_ not to harm us," said Mr Query,
reproachfully.

"Well, I didn't hurt anyone, did I, but how about your treatment of me?
That wasn't in the contract either," said Karl.

Meanwhile Karl looked about him curiously. He had never been to
dwarfland before, and might never have the chance of visiting it again,
and he did not wish to lose the opportunity of seeing all he could.

"Are there any more of you?" he asked the dwarfs.

"I should think so," they answered. "Hundreds and thousands of us live
under this mountain."

Karl noticed passages running in all directions, and low caves which
seemed to be dwellings, many of them richly ornamented and furnished. In
one of these caves he observed a looking-glass, and wondered which of
the dwarf men trimmed his beard before it. He met a great many little
men scurrying about, who cast anxious glances at the giant who had
strayed among them. Karl had frequently to stoop; the ceilings seemed
very low to him, although they were high enough compared to the dwarf
men.

"Where are the female dwarfs?" he asked abruptly.

"Dwarfs have no womenfolk," Mr Query replied. "We did away with them
long, long ago!"

"That was rather rough on them, eh?" said Karl.

"Well it happened so many centuries ago that we have forgotten all about
it, and so are unable to gratify your curiosity. Perhaps if you care for
antiquities and were to study the pictures on the walls, you might find
out."

"Not my line," said Karl shortly.

"As we have no women," Mr Query continued, "we never quarrel and have no
differences of opinion."

"I expect no lady would care to live down here with you in this dark
hole," said Karl, thoughtfully. "But to whom does the looking-glass
belong?"

"A fairy comes to visit us occasionally; she makes herself useful and
tidies up the place a bit for us," said the dwarf. "She's here
now--would you like to see her?"

"Of course I should," said Karl, his heart beating fast at the thought
of meeting a real fairy--perhaps she was a princess in disguise, and he
might be chosen to win her.

The dwarf drew back the curtain that hung before a beautifully furnished
cave, and there Karl saw a young girl who was busy dusting and arranging
handsome gold vases on a carved bracket. Even by the pale light of the
glow-worms and the lantern which he had not yet extinguished, he could
see that she was very beautiful. She had a mass of red-brown hair, that
waved in tiny curls about her forehead, and hazel eyes with dark
eyelashes. As to her figure, she was small and slight, so that she did
not look quite so monstrous in that little world as Karl did. She had a
big holland apron on, with a gaily embroidered border. When she saw
Karl, she laughed. "To think of meeting a young man in this old
hole--how funny," she exclaimed.

"Are you a fairy?" said Karl, bewildered by her beauty.

"Do I look like one?" she answered with a toss of her bronze curls.

"Not exactly," said Karl, "but then I have never seen a fairy; you are
pretty enough for one!"

She made a little curtsy in acknowledgment of the compliment. "I'll have
finished my work soon," she said, "and then we will go home together."

"That will be delightful," said Karl.

The dwarfs were looking on.

"You may go," said Mr Query. "You have worked enough for to-day." He
handed her several pieces of gold. Her eyes sparkled with glee as she
pocketed the coins; she was proud of having earned some money.

"Follow me," she said to Karl, "and I will show you the way home. You
would never be able to find it alone."

"The dwarfs have burrowed here like moles," said Karl aside to the girl,
"and I believe they are almost as blind and ignorant."

"Do not speak disrespectfully of moles," said a dwarf who had overheard
the last part of this remark. "They belong to the most intelligent of
all creatures; who can build a fortress like the mole?"

"Norah," said the dwarfs, "Norah, when are you coming again?"

"Very soon," she said, "I'll bring some metal polish with me, and make
your vases shine!"

"Norah," thought Karl, "so that is her name. I wonder where she lives?"

Norah led the way back through intricate passages until they came to the
open space where there was the staircase leading up to the outside
world. "Good morning," she said to the dwarfs.

Karl pulled out his watch--yes--the night was already past, it was four
o'clock.

"I'll drop in again soon, and see about your little commissions," he
said to the dwarfs. "Electric light you want, telephone and lift, it
will be rather a big job."

"And what about the airship?" asked Mr Query.

"O I can't rig that up for you; you must go to Frankfurt and see that
for yourselves. Good morning," and he turned to follow Norah, who was
already some way up the stone staircase. From a distance she really
looked like a fairy. The light of dawn shone on her wonderful hair; she
had taken off her apron, and had on a white dress trimmed with gold,
that fluttered as she mounted the steps. At the top she waited to take
breath, and Karl easily caught her up. They gazed down into the depths
beneath them, but no trace of dwarfland could they see. Even the
glow-worms had vanished, and the rough steps looked like natural niches
in the rock. They were on the top of the mountain. Near by stood a grove
of firs, the trees were so gnarled and stunted from their exposed
position that they looked like a dwarf forest, and seemed appropriate
growing there.

"Your name is 'Norah'," said Karl boldly, "but that is all I know about
you!"

"I am no fairy princess, alas," said Norah, "but only a poor landlord's
daughter. My father and I have the new hotel in Elm!"

"O you must be the pretty innkeeper's daughter then of whom I have heard
so much," said Karl. "Now isn't it funny, I had meant to stay the night
at your hotel on the chance of seeing you, and now we meet under the
earth in dwarfland--romantic I call that! Why do you work for those
little beggars?" he continued.

"For the same reason that you have proposed doing so," she answered, "to
earn money. I was picking bilberries on the mountains and strayed into
their land by chance one day. I found them busy at work spring cleaning,
and helped them a bit, and that was my first introduction to the dwarfs.
They pay me well for little work, and starting an hotel costs a great
deal of money you must know. I am glad to be able to help my father."

"You do not come from this part of Germany, you speak quite differently
to us," said the young man inquiringly.

"My home is over the seas," said Norah. "My father is an Irishman; but
we found it hard to get on there, and meant to emigrate to America. Then
father changed his mind, and we came to Germany. My mother died some
years ago," she said sadly.

"Poor child," said Karl in a deep, sympathetic voice, "there must be a
good deal of responsibility on your young shoulders."

"I should just think so," said Norah with a sigh, "but our hotel is
going to be a tremendous success!" As she spoke, she led the way
through a little narrow path, that crossed a heath where heather grew,
and great masses of yellow starred ragwort. "Ah! me beloved golden
flower," she cried, pointing the plant out to Karl, who had passed it by
a thousand times as a common weed, but to whom it seemed from this day
forth to be alive and full of meaning. "We call it fairy-horses in
Ireland," she said, with a rapt look on her face, "sure and I can see my
native mountains when I pluck it"--and her eyes filled with tears.

She wanted no consoling however, her mood changed quickly enough. "Do
come here," she called out to Karl, "and see what I've found now!" She
showed him a clump of pure white heather; "it is tremendously lucky,"
she said, "and you shall have a bit too." So saying she stuck a piece of
white heather in his buttonhole--real white heather, not the faded
flowers which children sometimes mistake for it. Karl treasured the
spray carefully.

"And how did you come to be among the dwarfs?" said Norah. But their
further conversation was checked by a little brook that ran straight
across the path. Now Norah usually took off her shoes and stockings and
waded over this stream; but she did not like to do so with Karl looking
on. Karl would have liked to pick her up in his arms and carry her
across like a true hero of romance; but he was shy of proposing it. So
he fetched some large flat stones, placed them dexterously in the
stream, and sprang across himself, then he held out a hand to Norah who
stepped over as quickly and gracefully as a young deer.

"Now I will tell you how it was you found me in dwarfland," said Karl as
they walked on together. "I was at work on the new tunnel----"

"You'll not be telling me that you are a working man?" said Norah.

"No I am an engineer. I was on duty looking after the men, then, somehow
or other I fell against the wall of the tunnel and hurt my arm"; he
showed her his torn coat as a proof of the story.

"Poor thing," she interrupted, "did you bind it up properly?"

"O, it was a mere nothing," said Karl. "Well--I found myself in a
strange winding passage that led right down into the central hall of the
dwarfs." He did not wish to say that he had been asleep; he thought that
would sound so silly. "Queer little fellows they are, those dwarfs," he
continued, "awfully ignorant too. Now will you believe it they had never
heard of the Zeppelin airship?"

"We'll really have to give them lessons," said Norah, laughing, "but
perhaps they are not so stupid as they make themselves out to be!"

Climbing over boulders and stones, laughing and talking the while like
two children just out of school, they reached the bottom of the mountain
and saw the village. It could hardly be called a town as yet, though
Norah's father hoped that the new railway station would speedily convert
it into one.

"Do you know where our hotel is?" said Norah. "It is at the other end of
the village; we will go round through the fields; the village folk stare
so; they are up at five o'clock to do their field-work.

"There it is!" she called out proudly, pointing to a large white house
with green shutters on which the words "HÃ´tel Fancy" were written in
large gold letters.

"What a queer name for an hotel!" said Karl.

"Yes, don't you think it is original and attractive?" said Norah. "There
are so many hotels called HÃ´tel Hohenzollern'--or 'The German Emperor'
and so I thought we would have a change."

"It is a splendid idea," said Karl, who was over head and ears in love
with Norah by this time and thought that everything she did and said,
was perfect. Still, like a prudent German, he wondered to himself if she
would make a good housewife. He knew she must be good at cleaning or
the dwarfs would hardly have employed her, but her dainty little hands
did not look like cooking.

"What would it matter, if the dinner were burnt sometimes," he thought,
"if I could have such a pretty, fascinating little girl to marry me?"

"Will you come in and have some breakfast?" said Norah as they
approached HÃ´tel Fancy.

"Rather," he said, "I must own that I am famished. I only had a dry bit
of bread and cheese for supper, and that is a long while ago."

It was early still, Norah's father was not yet up; so she set to work
and lit the fire, and soon had the water boiling for coffee. She set a
fine breakfast before him, ham and eggs and sausage and rolls. I am
bound in strict veracity to say that love did not prevent his consuming
a large amount. He changed his mind about her cooking, and thought that
she could do everything well and was a model of perfection.

"Do have some, too, yourself," he said, and Norah soon joined him with a
hearty appetite.

Mr O'Brian, for that was the name of Norah's father, was astonished to
find them at breakfast when he entered the comfortably furnished
parlour.

"An early guest, father," said Norah. "He is going to put up here for
the present; he is an engineer at work on the tunnel; good thing for
us"; she whispered the last sentence. "I will see about getting your
room ready," she said, turning to Karl.

"Please do not trouble," said he. "I'm due at the tunnel again at 7 a.m.
and it is 6 o'clock now. I hope to return to-night about 8 o'clock; then
I shall be glad of a room," he said, with a hardly suppressed yawn.
"Pray excuse me, I had rather a bad night," he added with a twinkle in
his eyes that only Norah perceived.

As soon as he was gone, Norah handed some gold pieces to her father.

"And do you think that I am doing right in taking this money from you,
Norah?" he asked.

"Why of course father! I'm telling you that it's fairy gold, and will
bring us luck," she replied.

The Irish have a great respect for luck and omens; many of them still
believe in the good folk, and Mr O'Brian, who was of a very easygoing
disposition, was quite satisfied with this explanation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some weeks passed. Karl and Norah became better friends every day. All
Karl's previous notions of the universe had been knocked on the head by
his visit to dwarfland. He had thought that he knew almost everything
that there was to be known, but now he was always on the look-out for
surprises. Moreover his love for Norah had opened his eyes. Every bush
seemed ablaze with fire, and the roses and pinks in the gardens smelt as
they had never smelt before.

Norah was like a fairy princess; she was not easy to win, she loved her
freedom, and wished to call no man lord and master. Because she was such
a wild bird and of a poetic and dreamy temperament, Karl's practical
mind appealed to her. He possessed that which she and her father lacked.
She was tired of her father's promises and castles in the air, which
usually ended in bitter disappointment. How many guests had they had
since HÃ´tel Fancy had been opened? She could almost count them on her
fingers. The peasants frequented the old inn that they were accustomed
to in the village, and very few strangers came their way.

"I will play waiter on Sunday and help you," said Karl one Saturday
evening when he had returned from his work.

"Indeed and you'll not need to," said Norah with a pretty Irish lilt in
her voice, "it's not many people that will be coming! It will be
different of course when the new station is built; then we shall be
flourishing," she continued.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a fine Sunday afternoon. Karl and Norah sat in the garden under
the plane-trees which made a chequered pattern in shadow on the ground,
and sipped glasses of Apfelwein or cider in German fashion.

"It was a queer thing that we two should meet in the little people's
land. It seems as if we were meant to pull together, doesn't it?" said
Karl with an effort.

Norah jumped up immediately, saying that she must see if the water was
boiling for coffee.

"No, no," said Karl catching her by the hand; "you are not going to run
away like that; you've just got to listen to me, Norah; for I can't keep
it in any longer. You are my fairy princess--I love you with all my
heart, and I want you to promise me to be my little wife--will you?"

"You don't know me yet," said Norah blushing like a rose. "I've got a
most awful temper!"

"I'll risk it," said Karl laughing, and they plighted their troth under
the trees in the garden with no one but the empty chairs and tables
looking on, that were spread in anticipation of the guests who had not
arrived.

So Karl and Norah were engaged to be married and were as happy as ever
it is possible to be in this world! They did not celebrate the event in
the usual ceremonious German fashion; for Norah's friends and relations
were in Ireland and she had only a few acquaintances in Germany as yet.
Karl's mother was a widow, and lived with her married daughter in
Pomerania; so she could not come so far south for anything less than a
wedding or a funeral.

Now Karl began to consider the material side of the question. "Will the
love that we are rich in, light the fire in the kitchen, and the little
god of love turn the spit O!" What had they to live on? He was a young
man, and his income was very small; it takes many years in Germany to
make a career as engineer, unless you are exceptionally lucky and have
influential friends.

HÃ´tel Fancy was rather like its name and did not pay at all as yet. Now
Karl had not forgotten the dwarfs, and Norah began to miss the gold
pieces which had disappeared fast enough in the last few weeks.

"I tell you what," she said, "we will go together to dwarfland. You can
arrange about the electric light, and I will do some metal polishing; we
will meet afterwards and come home again together, it will be splendid
fun!"

"How can we get there?" asked Karl somewhat dubiously.

"Why, the same way as we came out--through the rocky gap; I know the way
as well as anything, I have been there frequently," said Norah.

It was early autumn; the evenings had begun to close in. Karl had
managed to get off earlier than usual; still it was almost dusk as the
two set out to go to dwarfland. The sun was setting and threw a
wonderful golden glow over the world that was reflected in the hearts of
the young lovers.

"My stones must be there still," said Karl as they came to the little
brook, "for who could have taken them away?" Yet to his surprise there
were no stones there; neither were any to be found in the neighbourhood.
There was nothing for it, but to carry Norah over. He did not feel so
shy and embarrassed this time, as he picked up his little sweetheart
laughing and struggling in his arms.

"You are as light as a feather," he said as he set her down again.

"A feather bed, you mean," she said, "and they are a pretty fair weight.
I shall never get used to German feather beds," she continued. "I can't
even get them to look right when I make them and shake them!"

"You need to be born and brought up to them to appreciate them," he
replied, "but never mind, what does it matter, what is a feather bed in
comparison with our love?" They laughed for pure joy and good humour as
they walked along; ah how quickly time passes when one is so happy! The
sunlight gilded the rocks before them, till they looked as if they
contained streaks of gold ore. They crossed the little moor, and
clambered over the rocks till they reached the stunted fir-grove.

Looking back they saw that the sky had become a glowing red as it often
does just before the light dies out; seen through the dark, twisted
trees the wood appeared to be on fire. The lovers sat down and gazed for
a few moments in silence till the glory faded from the sky.

"Now for it, Norah," said Karl getting up and offering her a hand, "the
way down into dwarfland must be quite near here!"

"Of course I know, I can find it at once," she answered.

They searched carefully around for the great crack in the rocks, but
could find nothing in the least resembling it.

"How absurd; how _can_ we miss it when it is certainly not more than a
yard or two away," said Norah.

"The steps were not so easily recognisable, if I remember rightly," said
Karl, "but we are sure to find them in a minute."

It grew darker and darker; the mountain was covered with boulders of
stone, juniper bushes and stunted trees; but no trace of the great rent
in the mountain-side could they discover.

"Did we dream it all?" said Karl.

"Impossible, why I have been down there many times," said Norah
beginning to feel bitterly disappointed.

"Supposing I were to fetch some of my men here and blow up the rocks
with dynamite; we must be able to get in then, for the mountain is as
full of dwarfs as bees in a hive," said Karl, who was getting in a
temper.

"And do you think they would reward you handsomely for your services,"
said Norah sarcastically, "and O the poor little men, they always
treated me with the utmost kindness and politeness, and gave me far more
money than ever I bargained for!"

"They nearly pinched me black and blue, till I frightened them with my
revolver," said Karl.

"The wretches!" said Norah, "but why?"

"Because I was silly enough to tell them about the airship, and they
thought I was humbugging them."

"How absurd!" Norah exclaimed. "But what are we to do now, Karl?" she
continued in a doleful voice. "I _must_ have some money; we are still in
debt for the greater part of our furniture; and the house is heavily
mortgaged."

"If I could only get a good post!" said Karl sighing deeply. "I had
reckoned on those dwarf chaps!"

"We shall never be able to marry," said Norah, now in the depths of
despair; "our house will have to be given up, and our things sold by
auction, and I, O I shall have to marry a horrid, rich old peasant who
will treat me as a servant, and father will be obliged to work in the
fields." With this she burst into tears.

It was quite dark now save for the new moon whose pale crescent shone in
the sky. Norah observed it in spite of her tears.

"The new moon!" she exclaimed. "O do let us turn all the money that we
have in our pockets. How much have you got Karl?"

"About 10 shillings," he replied.

"O you are richer than I am; I have only 8d. in my purse; nevertheless
let us turn what we have, and it will be sure to bring us a fortune."

Karl laughed. "You little fairy," he said, and looked at her with
admiration; then involuntarily his eyes strayed in the direction of the
fir-grove. He thought he could see something moving there. Norah looked
too. "Karl," she said excitedly, "I do believe it is the dwarf men after
all; who else could it be?"

At the same moment they caught sight of a queer form with a turned-up
nose and peaked cap clearly outlined against the sky, and recognised Mr
Query.

"Hullo!" said Karl.

"[text missing in original] to you," he said in a droll manner.

"Now, Mr Dwarf," said Karl, anxious to proceed to business, "what about
our little agreement as to electric light, etc.?"

"The committee has decided against it," said Mr Query emphatically.
"What do we want with your new-fangled inventions; you would bring your
workmen with you; they would discover our treasures, and turn the whole
place into a mine, and of course we should be obliged to decamp."

"Well, there is something in what you say," said Karl to whom this idea
had already occurred, "but we could avoid that catastrophe!"

"As for you," continued the dwarf turning to Norah, "we have discovered
that you are a human being also, and no fairy; therefore we shall not
require your services any longer."

"What a horrid way to give me notice, as if I could help not being a
fairy!" said poor Norah weeping bitterly.

The little fellow was much distressed; he could not make out what was
the matter with her.

"Don't cry, little FrÃ¤uleinchen," he said, "I am sure we never thought
you were so fond of us as all that; it is very gratifying, but it is
too late now to alter our decision; the way down into our kingdom is
sealed for ever!"

"I could soon open it again," said Karl wrathfully.

"As for that, it would not be quite such an easy matter as you think,"
said Mr Query mockingly. "However we are willing to offer you terms," he
continued, "if you will leave us alone and protect our secrets."

"What terms?" said Karl and Norah eagerly.

"You shall see," said the dwarf, "follow me to the fir-trees." So saying
he sprang down from the stone on which he had been sitting and came up
and shook hands with them.

"We are going to be married! what do you think of that?" they informed
him.

"Humph! Your taste, not mine," said Mr Query. "However Norah will be
able to clean your gold and silver dishes capitally; that's a comfort
for you."

"We haven't got any gold and silver dishes to clean, alas!" said Norah.

"Poor things," said Mr Query, "well we'll see." He proceeded to the
fir-trees where the Gentlemen of the Committee were again assembled,
standing in a solemn semicircle. "If you will sign this contract, we are
willing to give you a reward. I speak in the name of the Gentlemen of
the Committee," said Mr Query, and the little men nodded their heads in
assent. He drew out a roll of parchment from a bag he carried with him
and handed it to Karl. Norah looked over his shoulder.

On the parchment was written the following:

     WE,
                     KARL HAMMERSTEIN,
                     NORAH O'BRIAN,

     pledge our solemn oath _Christmas Tree_, that we will not attempt
     to visit dwarfland again, or molest the dwarfs in any way, by
     offering them modern inventions for which they have no use, etc.,
     etc., or by revealing their secret chambers to the glaring light
     of day.
                             _Signed_..............................
                                     ..............................

"We are willing enough to sign," said Karl, "but what are your terms,
old man; we want to know that first. You offered us a bribe, you know."

"All in good time," said Mr Query. "Gentlemen of the Committee, display
the treasure!" The dwarf men formed themselves into a ring, in the
centre of which Norah and Karl could see masses of what looked like
solid gold. "You may take as much of this as you like," they said, "and
we warrant you on our solemn word of honour _Christmas Tree_ that it is
pure, unalloyed gold."

"We'll sign anything you like, dear little men," said Norah, joyfully,
"and I invite you all to my wedding!"

"Three weeks from to-day," said Karl.

But Norah was too excited to notice what he was saying.

"I shall always believe in the new moon," she repeated again and again.
"How shall we carry it?" she exclaimed suddenly. "I have not even got a
basket with me."

"My men shall trundle it along for you in wheelbarrows," said Mr Query.
"No please, do not say 'thank you.' I have a great objection to being
thanked."

Karl and Norah now signed the document with joyful hearts. Norah
professed herself very sorry not to see her dwarf friends again. She had
a real affection for the droll little men.

"You may come across us sometime again, who knows," said Mr Query. "We
make excursions into your world from time to time. It is improbable but
not impossible that we may meet again. Good-bye!" A brilliant flash as
of lightning shot from under the ground; the earth trembled and shook.
Norah clung to Karl in terror; for she thought that the earth would
swallow them up too. Then Mr Query and the dwarfs disappeared
underground calling out as they did so: "You see we have our lift and
our electric light too, Mr Engineer--ha! ha!--we are not quite so behind
the times as you thought us--ha! ha!"

Norah and Karl stood still in speechless astonishment; then they looked
anxiously for their gold, fearing that the dwarfs might have played them
a trick after all. But no, there were two jolly strong-looking little
fellows with wheelbarrows. "We've got the gold all right," they said.
"Don't you be afraid. We've put some dirty old potatoes at the top,"
they continued with a cunning expression on their faces, "just in case
we meet anyone on the way you know--we should have to hop skip and
jump--one, two, three and off, and it might look awkward for you."

"I am sure it's very kind of you," said Norah, "and we can never thank
you enough," and off they all set down the mountain. It was a
troublesome job to get the heavy wheelbarrow over the stream. Norah
declared afterwards that some of the gold was lost there; but they found
no trace of it again if it were so. They did not feel safe until they
reached the gate of HÃ´tel Fancy.

"Shall we put it in the back yard or in the stable?" said the little
fellows in a hoarse whisper.

"Put it in the corner of the stable," said Norah, "as we have not got a
horse no one goes in there. We will manage the rest, _thank you_ so
much."

"_Please_ don't thank us," said the little men, "dwarfs are not used to
that, and it hurts their feelings."

"Well, here is something for your labours," said Karl, and he gave the
little men a handful of silver. They turned it over and over and seemed
to regard it as a great curiosity. Then they heard a movement in the
house, and quick as lightning they were off before Karl and Norah could
say good-bye.

Mr O'Brian was pacing up and down in a great state of agitation; it was
nearly midnight and he feared they might have met with an accident.
"There's no depending on the fairies," he said to himself, "and dwarfs
are said to be treacherous," so you see he knew something of what Norah
was up to.

His joy was the greater when Norah and Karl rushed in and dragging him
to the stables showed him the pile of gold. "I'll be for taking it to
the bank at once," he said, "you never know but what it may melt away,
or turn into a heap of leaves, I've read stories like that."

"Our wedding shall be next week," said Karl, joyfully.

"And aren't you going to give me any time to get my trousseau?" said
Norah with a dancing light in her eyes that made her look more
enchanting than ever. "Sure and I'll be wanting the finest trousseau
that ever a princess had."

"We'll turn HÃ´tel Fancy into a palace," said Mr O'Brian.

The wedding was celebrated three weeks from this date, as they had
agreed. Norah wore an exquisitely soft cream silk gown, embroidered with
real gold; it was said that the embroidery was a present from the
dwarfs. Certain it is too that she wore an old pearl necklace of such
marvellous workmanship that the like was never seen before.

The tale was whispered that a little deformed man had been seen to slip
a parcel containing the necklace into the letter-box.

Norah's relations came over from Ireland to be present at the wedding,
and you may be sure that Karl's mother arrived too all the way from
Pomerania to share the festivities and the cake. HÃ´tel Fancy was crammed
with guests; every available room was occupied; there was some talk
already of enlarging the house.

One of the presents that the bride had from her husband, was a
looking-glass, set with precious stones. People thought that it was a
curious wedding-present, and wondered if Norah were exceptionally vain.
But Karl declared that if it had not been for a looking-glass he might
never have known his wife, a remark which sounded more mysterious than
ever.

Many conjectures were made concerning it, but none of them were half so
strange as the truth. Another present was a brooch set in diamonds in
the shape of a crescent moon.

As they were now wealthy, Karl was able to indulge his passion for
mechanical inventions, and HÃ´tel Fancy was full of the most delightful
surprises: fountains in unexpected places in the spray of which little
balls danced up and down, a rare gramophone that played the most soft
and pleasant music, every variety of electric light and so on.

Norah was a little disappointed that her friends the dwarfs did not come
to the wedding; but what could she expect if her mother-in-law and
uncles and aunts and cousins were all asked as well! Could she expect
that the dignified Mr Query would condescend to become an object of
general curiosity? I have heard that the little men called and left
their cards some days after the wedding, when Norah and Karl were away
on their honeymoon, and that Mr O'Brian treated them as royal visitors,
and that they left charmed with his hospitality, and astounded at the
many entertaining and marvellous things that were to be seen in HÃ´tel
Fancy.




KÃTHCHEN AND THE KOBOLD


Half-way up the long steep hill that leads from Soden to KÃ¶nigstein, a
rough road branches off to the left, plunging suddenly into a valley,
and passing through the little village of Altenhain. As you walk down
this steep rocky incline, the Taunus Mountains rise up grand and high in
ever-changing panorama.

At the bottom of the hill lies Altenhain, an ordinary enough Taunus
village, save for the beautiful shrine that stands on the high road.
There a Crucifix hangs between two enormous poplar trees, one of the
most beautiful natural altars in the world. The trees are tall and
pointed like church spires, the trunks venerable with age. May the
lightning spare these grand old trees, and the winds play gently through
their boughs!

In this village lived a schoolmaster with his wife and family consisting
of a daughter, twelve years old, and a baby boy. They were not really
poor; for, besides their income, they had a piece of land to grow
potatoes and vegetables; also a strip of vineyard and fine strawberry
fields on the Dachberg, the produce of which they sold in Frankfurt for
a good price. Moreover, they kept pigs and chickens and geese, and two
dear little goats that gave them milk.

On a fine September day KÃ¤thchen (that was the daughter's name) was on
the Dachberg, helping her parents to gather up the potatoes for the
winter. Two sacks stood already full, looking from a distance like funny
old peasants. KÃ¤the liked to watch the potato fires that are lit to burn
the refuse of the plants, smouldering and crackling in the dry autumn
air, and the smoke curling up in the clear sky.

It was now about five o'clock, and as she had worked all day, she was
tired and began to groan and grumble. So her mother said: "Hurry up and
go home now, child, before it gets dark. Fetch the baby (the neighbours
had taken charge of it for the day), light the fire, put on the kettle,
and peel and boil the potatoes for supper."

KÃ¤the was only too glad to be let off; her tiredness soon vanished as
she flew down the steep, grassy slope of the Dachberg, slipping and
tumbling every minute. The sun was low, and glowed through the pines and
larches, which stand here together, making a wonderful contrast.

KÃ¤the found her way across the wet emerald field coloured with patches
of exquisite lilac from the autumn crocuses growing there in thousands,
hanging out their cheeky little orange tongues. She sang and shouted for
joy, and a feeling half sadness, half exhilaration, that comes to us
often at the twilight, came over her. She wore a little red skirt and
loose cotton blouse, and a tidy pinafore put on in order to cover her
soiled frock on the way home. Her hair was ash blonde, and braided in
two plaits round her head. Her eyes were dark and deep-set, and were a
strange contrast to her hair. She passed over the tiny bridge where the
brook crosses the field, and gathered a bunch of wild flowers,
meadowsweet and harebells, water forget-me-nots and ragged robin, and
made a pretty nosegay. She also picked a graceful spray of hops, the
leaves slightly tinged with red, and wound it in and out of her hair.
She had forgotten the baby and the supper and all the things for which
she was responsible, and was just a little maiden living in her own
enchanted land.

Now the path wound close by the pine woods, and the air seemed to grow
chillier and more solemn. She saw great white clouds resting on the
Dachberg above her. She seemed so far away, down in this valley and so
alone. But she knew that her father and mother were near, probably
watching her from the hill-top; it was silly to be frightened, she knew
the way so well.

Suddenly something sprang out of the bushes on to the path in front of
her. She gave a great jump, but then so did he and she saw that it was
only an old green frog. He cheered her up at once, and she began to poke
at him with a stick and to sing:

 "The frog sits in the rushes,
     The funny fat old man,
  And sings his evening ditties
     As sweetly as he can,
  Quark--Quark--Quark."

But as suddenly as he had appeared on the scene, the frog vanished again
with a leap and a bound into the dark waters of the little brook that
ran along by the side of the way.

Then she heard a rustling of the bushes and saw a little red squirrel
peering at her with his bright, inquisitive eyes. Round and round the
tree-trunk he went, enjoying himself thoroughly, and making fun of
KÃ¤thchen, playing peep-bo like a baby.

The sun glowed through the tree trunks. It must be about six o'clock. "I
must hurry up or supper will not be ready when my father and mother come
home," she thought.

She then became aware of the sound of footsteps coming towards her along
the path.

"Probably a peasant from Altenhain," she thought, and was pleased to
think of meeting a friend. But the footsteps sounded strange and light,
more like the pattering of raindrops through leaves, and then for a
moment, she turned giddy; it seemed to her as if the trees were really
rushing past her, as they seem to do when we look at them out of a
railway carriage. One of the young oak trees seemed to be running
towards her down the path; but as she looked more closely, and her head
became steadier, she saw that it was a boy a little older than herself,
who came running towards her, and very queer he looked.

He had a great mass of brown curly hair tumbling about his head; green
ears--it seemed to her, _could_ it be possible? No, it must be that he
had stuck oak leaves into his curly locks for ornament, pretty oak
leaves tinged with soft red. Moreover he had the bluest and strangest
eyes she had ever seen. They shone like wonderful jewels at one moment,
and then turned dull and opaque and looked almost dead. He had on rough
green trousers, and a white shirt with yellow embroidered braces; his
feet were bare and very brown. When he saw KÃ¤the, he gave a wild kind of
Indian whoop, and danced round and round her, much to the poor child's
dismay, his eyes flashing all sorts of colours. Her heart beat fast, but
not a word or sound would come out of her mouth.

The boy then made a deep bow, and took her by the hand. Soon he had his
long arms round her waist and was trying to kiss her.

KÃ¤the began to cry with fear and indignation, "You rude, naughty boy,"
she said, "I will tell my mother of you."

The imp seemed much surprised, caught one of her tears on his finger,
held it up to the light and then sucked it, making funny faces all the
time. KÃ¤the could not help laughing, and then she dried her tears with a
corner of her apron. She sat down on a tree-trunk for a moment and tried
to think.

Immediately the boy sat by her, and begged her to give him a kiss. He
looked quite nice and pretty for the moment, and KÃ¤the thought she had
better do as he wished, or he might begin his antics again. So she gave
him a motherly kiss, just as she would give to her baby brother, smack!
on the cheek. Immediately the queer look went out of his eyes, and a
more human expression took its place.

"KÃ¤the," he said, "KÃ¤the, I am but a lonely little imp of the forest,
but I love you, KÃ¤the, and I want you to marry me, and live with me
always, and be my own little wife. Will you, O will you? O _do, do_,
do," he said, dancing up and down in wild excitement.

"O goodness gracious me, you are certainly quite crazy," said KÃ¤the, "I
will tell my mother of you!" She began to cry again, and smacked him
whenever he tried to come near her.

Then he seized her by the hand and dragged her after him into the wild
woods, till they were lost in the forest.

"O dear, O dear, whatever _shall_ I do? what will mother say when she
finds no KÃ¤the, no supper, and no baby. Boo-o-o-o!"

"Never mind," said our imp consolingly, "you can't help it now, you have
run away with me you see."

"I didn't, indeed I didn't," interrupted KÃ¤the indignantly.

"I will send a moonshine KÃ¤thchen to take your place for the night. You
_are_ fond of dreaming, aren't you?"

"O yes, mother often calls me 'TrÃ¤um Lies' (Dreaming Liese)."

"Well then, it's all right, she will not notice anything, and you and I
will have fine times together. If you won't marry me, at least, we can
get _engaged_ you know, that will be fine fun."

"Hum----" said KÃ¤the, "that _would_ be amusing. We might _play_ at being
engaged! that would not matter."

"Have you a gold ring for me?"

"O we will go and buy one at the flower shop," said he.

"At the _flower_ shop, that is a funny place to buy rings at," said
KÃ¤the.

"Buttercups and dandelions melted to a yellow heat make splendid fairy
gold," he replied.

"Ah, then you really _are_ a fairy!" said the little girl.

"Why of course, did you think I was a human child like you? What _did_
they teach you at school?"

"Reading, writing and arithmetic, history and geography and scripture
and sewing," said KÃ¤the.

"But not how to know a fairy when you see one, O my stars!" said our
hero.

 "What is the good of learning
    To read and write and sew,
  To count and do addition
    If fairies you don't know?

  How do you know a fairy?
    O by his glittering eye,
  And by his light, light footsteps
    You know when he goes by.

  O what are school and lessons,
    My little maiden, pray,
  If to the land of fairy
   They do not show the way?"

So he sang, and KÃ¤thchen thought to herself: "I've always suspected that
we did not learn _everything_ at school."

By this time her little head was completely turned; she thought no more
of supper or mother or baby, but only wondered with round eyes what
would happen next.

The moon shone brilliantly through the branches, and she noticed that
the trees began to move, and some of them quickly changed places.

"Have you ever seen the trees dance?" said our hero. We will call him
Green Ears; for I had forgotten to say that being a tree-imp, his ears
were shaped like oak leaves, and were green tinged with pinky red. It
was peculiar of course, but not so very noticeable on account of his
thick curly hair. He was able to move them if anything startled him, to
prick up his ears in very truth; then you saw that they really
_belonged_ to him.

The trees did not wait for KÃ¤the to reply; they formed themselves in
long avenues and began a stately dance, something like a quadrille.

A soft fairy music was played by an invisible band. Squirrels sprang at
intervals from one tree to another, spreading out their bushy tails and
uttering strange cries like new-born babies.

Birds flew in and out singing and keeping time to the music and rhythm
of the dance. It was a strange sight, grotesque yet beautiful; the trees
took half human forms and faces; it was funny to see how they joined
hands (or branches) from time to time in the dance. After they had
watched for some time and the sport had become monotonous, Green Ears
took KÃ¤the to the top of the hill, and there they saw the beautiful
peaked mountain called the Rossert, bathed in the moonlight.

"Well, children, enjoying yourselves on this fine night, I hope?" said a
woman of tall and commanding presence. "Will you come home and have
supper with me? I am sure Green Ears has forgotten to offer you anything
to eat."

Here she chucked him under his pointed chin.

The two children, fairy and human, turned and followed her, they felt
that she was a person of authority and must be obeyed. Her fair hair
fell in waving masses almost to her feet, it was covered with soft
feathers, as if she had recently been filling feather beds.

The children saw a lighted cottage before them, with red roof and
black-beamed walls like so many in the Taunus. A strong smell of
honeysuckle was wafted towards them.

"This is my wood cottage, it is quite close to the Rossert, as you see.
Some people call me the wood-woman, others Frau Holle," she said. "The
Old King (the mountain called AltkÃ¶nig) is my brother; Olle (slang in
German for _old_) or Holle, it is all the same, we are all relations in
the Taunus, you must know!"

In front of the house was a dear little garden. The moonlight shone
brightly on the flower-beds. The fairies were awake and peeped out with
the greatest interest as the children entered.

Over the door was written in letters made of light, like those beautiful
advertisements of beer and chocolate which so adorn the city of London
by night:

 THIS WAY TO FAIRYLAND.

KÃ¤the felt that she was learning more in one night than in all her life
before of that strange dream-world on the borders of which we live.

The house was so neat and tidy, that it looked as if it had just been
spring-cleaned; the windows stood wide open, the moonlight streamed in.
A little table was laid for supper.

Frau Holle invited them to sit down and they did so at once.

Green Ears sat opposite to KÃ¤the staring at her with a wistful
expression of adoration and love in his eyes.

A chocolate pudding with cream and sugar and a bilberry jelly stood on
the table, also rolls which were thickly buttered and spread with
various kinds of fairy sausage purely vegetarian in character. Mugs of
delicious-looking milk were ready for each child.

But the supper reminded KÃ¤the of her home and she felt a little uneasy.

However she had _at the bottom of all_ a comfortable feeling that all
was right. This is the way with many of our self-imposed troubles, big
people's as well as little people's. We groan and grumble, and express
our views that everything is very wrong, and the world is soon going to
the dogs, but _at the bottom of all_, we know that it is all right, and
that all things work together for good.

Green Ears began to fidget; he was like a little girl I know, and
_could_ not sit still for more than one minute.

"Frau Holle," he said, "Frau Holle, Gracious Lady, we want to get
engaged."

Frau Holle burst out laughing: "A mortal child and a Kobold of the
forest! nonsense, it's impossible!"

KÃ¤thchen lifted up her brown eyes. "We might play at it," she said. "It
would be a beautiful game."

Frau Holle chuckled so much at this that she nearly upset the milk jug.

"How _do_ people get engaged?" said KÃ¤the. "I have often thought about
it, but I never could imagine how they do it?"

"Didn't they teach you that at school either?" said Green Ears. "My
stars! What _did_ they teach you at school?"

"Children," said the wood-woman, "children, do you mean it?"

"Certainly," said Green Ears.

"I think so," said KÃ¤the.

"Do you wish to buy rings?"

"O yes," decidedly from both children.

"Now listen; there is a passage from my house leading to the shops, most
convenient I assure you," said Frau Holle. "Everything delivered
punctually on the premises within one minute of purchasing it. No lifts
or motor-cars necessary. You see I know the ways of the world." So
saying she opened the back door, and they passed into a lane lighted by
many lamp-posts. These lamp-posts gave a very bright light and had queer
faces like the man in the moon. They grinned and winked as Green Ears
and KÃ¤thchen went by.

It was a lovely fair; a fair in fairyland you may imagine how gorgeous
that must be!

There were stalls on which lay all sorts of tempting things, cakes,
sweet and toys. KÃ¤the felt sorry that she had no money.

At the flower stall they paused; the flowers were exquisitely arranged,
and out of each peeped a little Fee.

In big gold letters was written:

 CONDENSED FLOWERS FOR SALE.

As Green Ears asked boldly for engagement rings, a fairy who stood
behind the stall, handed him two little gold rings made to fit any
finger; they were a new patent and self-adapting, the fairy said.

Green Ears was so pleased that he turned head over heels again and again
for joy, a funny proceeding for a would-be husband.

"Do you know _how_ to get engaged," he said to the fairy.

"Why no, not exactly, but I have heard it is very simple," said she.
"Mother Holle (here she made a deep curtsy), Mother Holle knows all
about it."

KÃ¤the looked out of the corner of her eyes at her lover, and wished he
would behave with more dignity. Now he was cramming his mouth with
sweeties.

"Aren't you going to give me _any_?" she said.

"O my stars!" he said again, surprised; it had never struck him. Imps
are usually egoists; that is to say they think _first_ of themselves.
There are exceptions, but this is the rule.

He went rapidly from stall to stall and returned with his arms full of
parcels done up in pink paper which he presented to KÃ¤thchen with a low
bow. She accepted them with much delight and they fell to munching
chocolate together; it was a real bond of union, and they were not the
first sweethearts who discovered it.

They reached the end of the street and suddenly found themselves alone
once more on the slopes of the Altenhainer Thal or Valley.

Green Ears sat down by KÃ¤thchen, and squeezed himself up closely to her.

"Give me your pretty little hand," he said. "_Do_ you know which is the
right finger?"

"O yes!" KÃ¤thchen knew that quite well, though I have heard that it is a
disputed point in Germany.

She stuck out her little hard-worked fingers, and he put the gold ring
on the third finger of the left hand. It fitted exactly and with a cry
of joy KÃ¤thchen put the other on his long brown finger.

Then both the children laughed and clapped their hands, and danced
merrily about. "Now we are engaged," they cried, "really engaged to be
married!"

They made such a noise that the squirrels were cross and threw sticks at
them for disturbing their early-morning sleep.

Then, goodness knows why--let us call it reaction--KÃ¤the began to cry
again, great, big drops.

Green Ears was much puzzled.

"You _are_ clever, now I can't do that," he said. "You must stay with
me always, and live with me in the woods, and be my own little
sweetheart."

"O no," said KÃ¤the, "I should never be allowed to do that; I must go to
school every day, and then I have my exercises to do, and to help mother
with the housework; the baby to mind; and--O I am always so busy."

"I will come and help you," said Green Ears.

"But you _can't_, you are not _real_, you know," said KÃ¤the and began to
cry again.

"KÃ¤thchen," said Green Ears, and he looked quite serious and thinky all
at once. "Listen to me. I will go to the Old King; he is the ruler of
all the fairies here, and I will beg him to teach me how to become
human. It may be years before we meet again, for the way into your world
is very hard for me to find. Yes it is easier for you to find the way
into our world, than for us to enter yours; but cheer up, I will dare it
and do it for your sake! but O sweetheart wait for me; O wait for me!"

 "Wait for me, my little sweetheart,
    Till I come to you again,
  Win the world for you, my sweetheart,
    With its joy and with its pain.

  Wait for me, my little sweetheart,
    For when falling on the ground
  I beheld those curious dewdrops
    To your heart my heart was bound.

  All my fairy life is nothing,
    All my fairy joy I give,
  Just to hold your hands, my sweetheart,
    In your world with you to live.

  Wait for me, my little sweetheart:
    I will find the way to you,
  As a grown man I will seek you,
    Seek and find you ever true."

So singing they walked arm in arm through the long winding valley, till
the dawn approached like a golden bird opening its great wings to fly.

KÃ¤thchen reached her cottage door. All was silent within. "Good-bye,"
she said, and their eyes met in one last farewell.

"Auf Wiedersehen!" said Green Ears (that pretty German farewell greeting
which means so much more than good-bye), and then he stole back down the
stony street, kissing his hands again and again to the little girl.

In some strange way KÃ¤thchen passed _through_ the door of her little
cottage; she had become for the time incorporeal; through the touch of a
fairy her body and soul had become _loose_, that is to say, and she was
able to enter the house as silently as a person in a dream. She went
through the kitchen and up the steep wooden stairs. It seemed to her as
if her feet did not touch the ground, she floated rather than walked.
She reached her own little attic, and saw the room as if it were a
picture, the square window-frame, the branches of the trees outside,
the old pictures on the walls that she was so fond of.

But what was her surprise to see _herself_ curled up asleep in her big
wooden bed!

The horror of it made her faint, and she remembered no more until she
found herself in her own bed under her own big feather sack. In order
that she should not forget her night's adventures, or think it was all
merely a dream, she found a ring of yellow grass wound tightly round her
third finger. From that hour, though the ring fell to pieces, the mark
of it was clearly to be seen on her finger. It _was_ a fairy ring, you
see.

Her mother apparently had not missed her, and the baby was as jolly as
ever.

"What _was_ the matter with you last night, KÃ¤the?" said her mother.
"You were dreamier than ever; not a word could we get out of you. You
_must_ have been tired out, you poor child!"

"But everything was all right, wasn't it, mother, the potatoes were
boiled and the supper ready?"

"Why of course you managed very nicely. Now hurry up and let us have
breakfast."

Now I feel sure that all the children who read this story will want to
know what happened to KÃ¤thchen and Green Ears later on.

Did he really come back to visit her as a grown man?

Did they marry and live happy ever after?

Had he green ears as a mortal?

But alas the fairies who told me this story, have left these questions
unanswered, at all events for the present, so I can only guess at the
conclusion.

I think myself that Green Ears was pretty sure to succeed in his quest,
because if you want a thing intensely enough, you can usually get it.

They would make a rather funny married couple, that is true, and we will
hope that Green Ears did not turn head over heels on his marriage day.

But the fairies assure me that the trials necessary to pass through in
order to become a mortal, have a very sobering effect on the character,
and so we can think of Green Ears as quite different, though still
fascinating and charming.

I would have liked to be present at their wedding, wouldn't you?

 "O joy when on this solid earth
  Is heard the sound of fairy mirth!
  O joy, when under earthly things
  Is heard the sound of fairy wings,
  When the impossible is true,
  When I come back and marry you!"




THE OLD KING


Walter had been playing with his kite in the garden. Somehow or other it
would never mount properly, unless his father was there to help him. It
was apt to fly up a little way, and then to fall into a bush or fence,
and there to perch like a big bird, until Walter and his friends rescued
it with difficulty. But on a windy day when his father took him into the
open fields, away the kite would sail, until Walter grew anxious lest it
should disappear altogether in cloudland.

It was a fine afternoon, about three o'clock, a lazy, sleepy time of
day. A queer jumble of all the fairy stories that the boy knew, passed
through his head as he sat on the lawn, day-dreaming, while his kite
flapped its wings on the ground beside him.

Now you must know that it happened to be Midsummer Eve, the summer fÃªte
day of the fairies. Walter stared at the mountains whose great purple
heads he could see in the far distance across the green plain. How they
changed from moment to moment, as the clouds cast their shadows on them,
till the sun shone out bright again and chased away the shadows. As
Walter looked intently at his favourite peak, a mountain called the Old
King, he saw a shining cloud on the summit against the sky, that he had
never noticed there before. As he gazed and gazed, the cloud seemed to
form itself into a wonderful castle. Each turret and tower was of an
exquisite hue like the clouds at sunset. Grey mists wreathed round it,
and made a soft, mysterious background: the castle became more vivid and
shone like gold.

How should Walter reach this fairy palace? For reach it he felt that he
must! His kite had an answer ready. It jumped up from the ground, and
looked at him with a queerly human expression, and seemed to say: "Sail
me!"

Walter gave but one touch to unwind the string, and up, up it mounted
like the Parzival airship, bearing the little boy with it, who held
tight to the end of the cord. He felt rather giddy and frightened at
first, but soon found out that by holding the cord in his hands to give
him confidence, and making movements in the air, similar to those of
swimming, he could fly quite easily.

Most of us have experienced this delightful sensation in our dreams, and
I have heard children declare that when they were small, they used to
fly downstairs without even touching the banisters. Perhaps flying may
be a forgotten art: or perhaps we have not yet learned to discover, and
to use our wings.

To Walter it came quite naturally; on, on they flew over the trees, and
over the houses, over the windings of the Nidda. Walter could hear the
tinkle tinkle of sheep bells below, or was it possible that he could
already hear the bells of fairyland ringing? Over the church spire of a
little village they soared, and all the children shouted: "Zeppelin!
Zeppelin!" because you see all this happened in modern times, when even
the children no longer believe in the supernatural.

As the kite flew nearer to the mountains Walter could see the well-known
tower of the Feldberg, and the inns kept by the landlords Storm and
Monster; he could see the castle of Cronberg, and the interesting
village of Falkenstein.

But where was the beautiful palace on the AltkÃ¶nig? Here was nothing to
be seen but trees, trees, trees. He would have thought it all a dream,
were it not for his wonderful flight through the air. The kite now
dropped gradually, and set Walter on the ground. Then it began to flap
about undecidedly, and behave queerly, like a dog seeking for a trail.
At last it set off again up a narrow path leading straight into the
green woods.

Walter followed, still holding tight by its tail, no longer soaring but
skimming the ground. Once or twice the poor kite was entangled in the
branches, Walter freed it, and off it set again at a fine pace up the
mountain-side.

Walter began to feel hungry; for there is nothing like flying to give
you an appetite, as Mr Euler would surely tell you, but the kite allowed
him no time even to gather a few raspberries on the way. At last they
came to a place where several paths crossed. Here the woods took another
character: dark firs grew in the place of beeches and oaks. These firs
were covered with a silver lichen that looked like hoar frost.

A little hut made of rough logs of woods stood at this crossing. At the
door stood a little old woman. She had neither red eyes nor a hooked
nose; so Walter thought to himself: "She cannot be a wicked old witch
like the one who caught HÃ¤nsel and Gretel." She had a friendly,
grandmotherly face, and invited Walter to come into her hut.

"You must be so hungry, you poor little man," she said. "Come in, come
in, the coffee is all hot and waiting for you!" Then she turned to the
kite which was turning head over heels, and making grimaces on the
ground. "Be off with you," she said, "we shall not need you any more!"

"Good-bye, good-bye, dear kite," said Walter, "thank you very much for
bringing me here."

The kite grinned and made a funny bow; then he mounted up of his own
accord, and sailed away home over the tree-tops.

On a rough wooden table was spread a delicious repast. Rolls and butter,
coffee and milk, Streuselkuchen and Butterkuchen such as German children
love, and also cakes called Bubenschenkel--or little boy's legs. Walter
did not quite like the name of these cakes; it made him think of witches
again; but they tasted quite harmless.

Whilst he was eating his cake, there was a knock at the door of the hut,
and in came a smart fox, wearing a red cap with green feather, and a
jaunty coat and waistcoat.

"Heigho! How fine you are, Mr Fox," said the old woman, "I suppose you
are going to the ball to-night?"

"O yes, of course, I am going to be there early. Miss Bushy Tail has
promised to be my partner for the Polonaise," he said. "I hope you have
a cup of coffee ready for me." He then sat down, and peered at Walter
with his bright, inquisitive eyes. Now everyone knows that the foxes
dance on the Feldberg on May Day. On one of the biggest fir-trees there
hangs a picture of two foxes dancing, and these cross-roads have thence
derived their name Fuchstanz. But they do not only dance on May Day, but
on many other occasions such as the present. Walter had often wished
that he could see them at their sports.

Presently there was a scratching at the window, and in came a squirrel
in a great hurry with a bag of nuts slung over his shoulder. He
disturbed the great black cat who was asleep on the window-sill, and she
bristled with rage, and swore at him; but he took no notice, and was off
again in a jiffy, after having drunk a tiny little glass of milk which
stood all ready for him on the table. The squirrels were very busy; for
a great many nuts were required for the feast, and they had been turning
out their store cupboards.

A little hare peeped shyly in at the door. "Hullo!" he said. "Fine
doings at the castle to-night. I am carrying up a basket or so of Easter
Eggs. They are sure to please the Old King," and off he went.

"Is he really the Easter Hare?" asked Walter; but no one answered his
question.

The old woman smiled mysteriously. When Walter had finished his coffee,
she said: "Now my little dear, you must be off as well, or you will be
late at the castle. It is a great privilege for you to be invited; it is
long since the Old King has sent for a mortal child."

"But did he send for me?" said Walter, astonished.

"Why of course, or how could you have got here alone," said the fairy.
"But be very polite and answer nicely when spoken to, or the Old King
might be angry, and when he is angry the whole mountain shakes, and I
crouch and tremble in my little hut. But now let us see if I have not
got something fine for you," so speaking she pulled out a sack of toys
that stood in a dark corner and gave Walter a cart and horse. At first
it was quite small; but when she set it on the floor, it grew and grew
until it was large enough for a seven year's old boy to ride in. And O
marvel, the wooden horse began to prance as if it were alive!

Walter sprang into the cart; the door of the hut stood wide open, and
out he drove.

"Good-bye, good-bye," said the fairy of Fuchstanz. She gave him a bag of
gingerbread nuts, beautifully ornamented, as the peasants in the
Odenwald know how to make them. One had on it:

  "For a good boy."

It was an invitation from the Old King and was worded as follows:

  AUDIENCE WITH HIS MAJESTY,  10-11.
    AMUSEMENTS VARIED.
  SUPPER AND DANCING,            12.
    CRYING FORBIDDEN.
                           OLD KING

"Good-bye, I will come to see you again very soon," said Walter, and he
drove up the mountain in fine style.

It was now getting quite dark; for he had stayed longer than he was
aware of in the little hut; the firs stood black and deep on either
hand; he would have been frightened perhaps, but he was tired; he closed
his eyes and played at being asleep in his little bed at home. When he
opened his eyes again, he saw bright lights flitting through the gloomy
fir-trees like so many luminous butterflies. One flew towards him, and
settled on the side of his cart, and he saw that it was a lovely elf
with a crown of gold on his head. "King Oberon himself," thought Walter,
and the elf answered, as all fairies do, to his _thought_:

"Yes I am Oberon, King of the fairies," he said in a voice in a high key
like the hum of insects. "I have come to look at you, it is so long
since I have spoken to a mortal child. Mortals care no longer for us;
they like true stories--that is stories about their own stupid little
lives; 'fairies do not exist,' they say, Ha, ha, ha! we pinch their
silly little toes, and send them bad dreams, and hide their toys, and
blot their copy-books, and then we do not exist, Ha, ha, ha!"

"But I care very much," said Walter eagerly. "O won't you come home with
me and live with me always and sleep in my bed, you beautiful little
Elf-man." And he put out his hand to catch the fairy as a child might
grasp at a butterfly. But--puff!--he was off like a seed of the
thistledown, and a peal of fairy laughter sounded in his ears. Then all
was still and dark again.

Suddenly a sound of bells broke the stillness ling, lang, ding dong.
These were the foxgloves, and the balsams popped like tiny pistols, and
from the tall mosses came sudden explosions and the scattering of
illuminated spores. All this in honour of the night.

Suddenly Walter became aware of a huge rock in front of him. Towering up
black and high on its summit was the wonderful castle that he had seen
from the distant plain. White and grey were its cloudy walls, rose and
lemon and emerald its towers and turrets; its roof was the sky studded
with a thousand diamond-rayed stars.

The horse could go no farther; his mission was accomplished. The boy
bade his dear steed farewell with many fond regrets, and set out with a
brave heart to scale the rock alone. It was a difficult and dangerous
climb in the dark night; but, however, he managed with the help of
bushes and shrubs to reach nearly to the top. But alas the last step was
too steep for the little boy; it was a sheer, perpendicular wall. Our
hero looked round in despair; big drops gathered in his eyes; but he
_would_ not let them fall. He stood quite still, clinging to the rock
and unable to move either forward or backward. It seemed like the climax
of a bad dream. Suddenly he saw a bright cloud approaching him, and the
air was full of a multitude of tiny elves. They seized hold of him by
his coat and knickers and boots and even by his curly hair, and bore him
upwards singing:

 "Fairies seek and fairies save
  Children who are bold and brave."

So they supported him up the last step and they floated off as they had
come, looking in the distance like a cloud of bright fireflies.

Walter now found himself in a dark, mysterious garden. The bushes and
trees took strange forms and seemed alive. One shrub that looked like a
big black bear gave a low growl, as he passed by. He was really
frightened and his little heart beat fast, in spite of all the fairies
had said in praise of his bravery. But he soon reached a lovely lighted
avenue leading straight up to the entrance of the castle. The doors
were open wide. Two large white owls stood on either side as sentinels.
A stream of light poured out of the hall and dazzled Walter's eyes, so
that he could not see distinctly at first. Graceful wood nymphs stood
chatting in groups. A statue of Siegfried slaying the dragon was in the
centre of the hall. Small fountains played round it. It seemed as if he
were expected at the castle as his arrival created no surprise. Two
fairies advanced and took him by the hand. Walter thought they were the
loveliest ladies he had ever seen. One was fair and dressed in cloudy
gauze which changed in colour from blue to green and mauve like
opalescent waters; the other was dark and wore a dress of rose colour
that changed into orange and red like leaping flames of fire. These were
the geniuses of water and fire. Walter did not know this at the time; at
least he only guessed it; he was too young to speculate as to the nature
of the strange sights he saw. He found himself suddenly in a Court suit
of white woollen material, beautifully embroidered and lined with
silver.

"Now you are a cloud with a silver lining," his fairy friends said to
him smiling. "You are sure to please the Old King."

Wonderful fairy creatures, nixies and gnomes and goblins arrived every
minute as guests for the castle. The hare came in quite breathless with
a basket which he delivered up to an attendant, saying: "Eggs for His
Majesty."

The fox from Fuchstanz seemed to feel himself very important; he
swaggered about, knocking people with his bushy tail. He stuck out a paw
condescendingly for Walter to shake as he went by, and stared at him
more inquisitively than ever.

An elderly woman who would have been very neat and tidy, save that her
hair was white with snowflakes (no, it could not be snow, it was little
feathers as soft as down) came in smiling with a pot of bilberry jam
under her arm. She had come from the Rossert Mountain, and the jam had
been cooked as was her custom on the Holle Stone, that mysterious stone
on the slopes of the Rossert, so neatly marked on the Taunus map, but so
impossible for the curious mortal to find.

Gradually all these strange guests began to form into a long procession,
and to march round the hall to the sound of fairy music.

One side of the wall was draped with a green curtain; this began to sway
and draw itself aside. A fresh, invigorating mountain air blew in their
faces; they marched on to a larger and loftier room. The ceiling was the
sky; the light was the light of thousands of stars, the same stars that
we know, but shining with greater brilliancy for the fairies on
Midsummer Eve. The floor was carpeted with the softest moss. Walter's
feet sank into it. They marched through green arches made by skilfully
interlaced trees. Pines and larches were arranged as pillars, and were
adorned by festoons of wild roses, forming garlands from one to the
other.

At the far end of the room stood two tall poplar trees, and between them
seated on a cloudy throne was a majestic being with flowing white beard,
and a crown of gold on his head. As Walter approached the throne, the
poplar leaves shook and shivered as before a thunderstorm. Then a great
wind arose, a mist rose up, the fairy procession bowed down before the
Old King--the Ruler of the Mountain. Then there was a sound like the
rumbling of thunder, and the Old King spoke. Walter had some difficulty
at first in catching the words, but by nudges, pinches, and pokes, the
company gave him to understand that they were addressed to him.

"What is your name? mortal child," said the Old King.

"Walter, please Your Majesty," said Walter with a deep bow, feeling his
courage going into his boots.

"Walter--a good old German name," said the Old King. "Doubtless you are
a poet?"

"Oh!" said our hero valiantly, "when I am a man I mean to write story
poems like Schiller and Uhland."

"That is right," said the Old King. "Real poets are rare in these days.
Even if I appear to them in all my splendour the stupid people merely
remark 'a curious cloud formation,' and think they know all about it.
You are young"--he went on--"you will forget all that you have seen
here; but the feeling will remain that the heavens are near you. Who
knows but what you may be a real poet in the future, a poet who shall
open men's eyes once more to the invisible world which lies so near
them. Remember your beautiful costume and show always the cloud with the
silver lining in your poems."

"Which do you like best, work or play?" continued His Majesty in a voice
like distant rolls of thunder.

"Play, please Your Majesty," said Walter, tremulously.

"Quite right, quite right, play play all the day--good folk say--good
folk say! Do you cry much? My children are all such cry babies, and
though I scold them and lecture them every day, they will not learn to
behave better."

Walter had no time to answer; for clouds came rolling up and almost hid
him from view.

"These are my troublesome children," said the Old King.

Some of the clouds were dear little cuddly babies, others looked like
great white poodles, others like huge black bears or crocodiles. With
outstretched arms and wingÃ¨d helmets strange forms rode by on swift
horses with floating manes resembling the WalkÃ¼re of old; the lightning
played across the sky as they passed. Truly they were a strange family
with much originality.

"Now, children, be off with you, and whatever you do, _don't cry_," said
the Old King. But even as he spoke, one little cloud dissolved in
raindrops and wetted the fine clothes of the company.

Presently a push and a bustle began. Long, narrow tables were brought
into the hall, and in a short space of time they were covered with the
most wonderful dainties in the way of sweets and cakes, jellies,
puddings and fruit.

Walter sat down hastily: a fine plate of Easter eggs and nuts was before
him. He helped himself plentifully, and even filled his pockets, which
was not quite good manners you know, but seemed to excite no notice.

A venerable water-sprite rose presently and proposed the health of the
Old King. Wine-glasses were filled to the brim with golden or crimson
wine; as the glasses clinked together, the vibrations sounded sweet yet
sad like some high violin note, as it dies on the string. Then a wind
arose, summer lightning played round the room, illuminating vividly the
faces of that strange company; a roar of thunder shook the castle.
Brunhilde's fire sprang up suddenly round the outer walls, so that the
scene was brighter than daylight. The tables were cleared away, and the
wildest revels began. The Old King faded into the distance like a
mountain-peak. A goblin seized hold of Walter and tore him round in the
maddest fashion.

The foxes had a corner to themselves; their dancing was evidently much
admired. Especially our friend and his sweetheart Miss Bushy Tail
distinguished themselves by the elegance of their steps.

Mother Holle seemed to keep a certain amount of order, but the revels
became wilder and wilder and Walter grew strangely sleepy and tired; he
felt himself a part of some mad dream. As he dreamed, great clouds came
rolling up, and all was lost in mist. When the mist cleared, Walter
stood once more before the throne of the Old King.

"Come my little fleecy," the Old King was saying to a little girl cloud
who came tumbling down before him. "Be the best of daughters and take
this little boy home; you know the way. But mind, no tears!"

"Adieu," he said to Walter. Walter murmured adieu, and, in another
moment, he was flying with his arm round the neck of the baby cloud,
flying, flying, flying.

       *       *       *       *       *

He knew no more till he found himself in his garden at home, feeling
rather queer and sleepy. He got up, and stretched himself, and found
that he was quite wet; for the little cloud had dissolved in tears at
parting from him. On the ground lay his kite looking quite innocent.

He went indoors, and found it was tea-time, and everything was just as
usual.

"Why, child, you are quite wet! Why did you not come in during the
shower?" he heard his mother's voice saying to him.

He found a huge walnut in his pocket and when he cracked it out crawled
a wonderful beetle with green body streaked with gold. As Walter put out
his hand to secure his treasure, it flew away from him looking very much
like King Oberon himself. Walter thought that he heard a peal of fairy
laughter, but it might have been only his fancy.

The next day was his birthday, and what do you think he had as a
present? Why the very same cart and horse that had carried him to the
castle, big enough to ride in. But he never told anyone--even his
mother--the whole story of his adventures. Perhaps he did not remember
them clearly himself; for the fairies protect their secrets well, and
draw in sleep the veil of forgetfulness over much that we have seen in
our dreams.

And did Walter become a great poet? He is a friend of mine, so I can
tell you. The world has not heard of him as yet. He tells me that he
often hears a little voice near him, singing, singing; sometimes he can
distinguish the words and the melodies. They make him feel sad at times,
he says, with longing for a world that is more beautiful than ours, but
oftener they make him feel exhilarated and happy.

He thinks that he knows many secret things that would make the world
happier if he could only get people to believe them. But these secrets
are not about high explosives or torpedoes or aeroplanes, or motor-cars
that can do the distance between Paris and Berlin at the very shortest
record. They are secrets that can only be breathed in music and poetry.

Be on the look-out for him, children; for the songs he sings will be
full of wonder, like Kubla Khan, and the melodies will be those of
fairyland. Did he not hear them himself on the Old King's Mountain, when
he attended the Midsummer fÃªte of the fairies?




THE DRAGON'S TAIL


I wonder if the girls and boys who read these stories, have heard of the
charming and romantic town of Eisenach? I suppose not, for it is a
curious fact that few English people visit the place, though very many
Americans go there. Americans are well known to have a special interest
in old places with historical associations, because they have nothing of
the sort in America; moreover many of them are Germans by birth, and
have heard stories of the Wartburg, that beautiful old castle, which
from the summit of a hill, surrounded by woods, overlooks the town of
Eisenach.

The Wartburg is quaintly built with dear little turrets and gables, and
high towers, a long curving wall with dark beams like the peasant
cottages, and windows looking out into the forest. It belongs at present
to the Grand duke of Sachsen-Weimar-Eisenach.

Every stone and corner of the Wartburg is connected with some old story
or legend.

For instance there is the hall with the raised dais at one end and
beautiful pillars supporting the roof where minnesingers of old times
used to hold their great "musical festivals" as we should say nowadays.
There was keen competition for the prizes that were offered in reward
for the best music and songs.

In the castle are also the rooms of St Elizabeth, that sweet saint who
was so good to the poor, and who suffered so terribly herself in parting
from her husband and children.

Then there is the lion on the roof who could tell a fine tale if he
chose; the great banqueting hall and the little chapel.

On the top of the tower is a beautiful cross that is lit up at night by
electric light and can be seen from a great distance in the country
round. This is of course a modern addition.

But the most interesting room in the castle is that where Dr Martin
Luther spent his time translating the Bible. A reward had been offered
to anyone who should kill this arch-heretic; so his friends brought him
disguised as a knight to the Wartburg, and very few people knew of his
whereabouts.

As you look through the latticed windows of that little room, the
exquisite blue and purple hills of the ThÃ¼ringen-Wald stretch away in
the distance, and no human habitation is to be seen. There too you may
see the famous spot on the wall where Luther threw the inkpot at the
devil. To be correct you can see the hole where the ink-stain used to
be; for visitors have cut away every trace of the ink, and even portions
of the old wooden bedstead. There is the writing-desk with the
translation of the Bible, and the remarkable footstool that consisted of
the bone of a mammoth.

Those were the days in which a man risked his life for his faith; but
they were the days also, we must remember, of witchcraft and magic.

One other story of the Wartburg I must narrate in order to give you some
idea of the interest that still surrounds the place, and influences the
children who grow up there. It was in the days of the old Emperor
Barbarossa (Redbeard).

The sister of the Emperor whose name was Jutta, was married to the
Landgraf Ludwig of ThÃ¼ringen, and they lived at the Wartburg.

One day when Barbarossa came to visit them, he observed that the castle
had no outer walls round it, as was usual in those days.

"What a pity," he said, "that such a fine castle should be unprotected
by walls and ramparts, it ought to be more strongly fortified."

"Oh," said Landgraf Ludwig, "if that is all the castle needs, it can
soon have them."

"How soon?" said the Emperor, mockingly.

"In the space of three days," answered his brother-in-law.

"That could only be possible with the aid of the devil," said
Barbarossa, "otherwise it could not be done."

"Wait and see for yourself," said the Landgraf.

On the third day of his visit, Ludwig said to the Emperor: "Would you
care to see the walls? They are finished now."

Barbarossa crossed himself several times, and prepared for some fearful
manifestation of black magic; but what was his surprise to see a living
wall round the castle of stout peasants and burghers, ready armed, with
weapons in their hands; the banners of well-known knights and lords
waved their pennants in the wind where battlements should have been.

The Emperor was much astonished, and called out: "Many thanks,
brother-in-law, for your lesson; stronger walls I have never seen, nor
better fitted together."

"Rough stones they may some of them be," said the Landgraf, "yet I can
rely on them, as you see."

Now as you may imagine, the children who grow up in this town, must have
their heads full of these tales, and many poets and artists have been
inspired by the beauties of Eisenach. The natural surroundings of the
town are so wonderful, that they also provide rich material for the
imagination.

Helmut was a boy who lived in Eisenach. He was eight years old, and went
to a day school. He lived outside the town, not far from the entrance to
the forest. He was a pale, fair-haired little boy, and did not look the
tremendous hero he fancied himself in his dreams; not even when he
buckled on helmet, breast-plate and sword, and marched out into the
street to take his part in the warfare that went on constantly there,
between the boys of this neighbourhood, and the boys who belonged to
another part of the town.

Now the Dragon's Gorge is a most marvellous place; it is surrounded on
all sides by thick forests, and you come on it suddenly when walking in
the woods. It is a group of huge green rocks like cliffs that stand
picturesquely piled close together, towering up to the sky. There is
only a very narrow pathway between them.

Helmut had often been there with his father and mother or with other
boys. After heavy rain or thawing snow it became impassable; at the best
of times it was advisable for a lady not to put on her Sunday hat,
especially if it were large and had feathers; for the rocks are
constantly dripping with water. The great boulders are covered with
green moss or tiny ferns; and in the spring time, wood sorrel grows on
them in great patches, the under side of the leaves tinged an exquisite
violet or pink colour. The entrance to the Dragon's Gorge is through
these rocks; they narrow and almost meet overhead, obscuring the sky,
till it seems as if one were walking under the sea. Two persons cannot
walk side by side here. In some parts, indeed, one can only just squeeze
through; the way winds in and out in the most curious manner; there are
little side passages too, that you could hardly get into at all.

In some places you can hear the water roaring under your feet; then the
rocks end abruptly and you come out into the forest again, and hear the
birds singing and see the little brook dancing along by the side of the
way. Altogether it is the most fascinating, wet and delightful walk that
you could imagine.

Helmut had long been planning an expedition to these rocks in company
with other boy friends, in order to slay the dragon. He dreamt of it day
and night, until he brought home a bad mark for "attention" in his
school report. He told his mother about it; she laughed and said he
might leave the poor old fellow alone; there were plenty of dragons to
slay at home, self-will, disobedience, inattention, and so on! She made
a momentary impression on the little boy, who always wanted to be good
but found it difficult at times, curious to say, to carry out his
intention.

He looked thoughtful and answered: "Of course, mother, I know; but this
time I want to slay a 'really and truly' dragon, may I? Will you let me
go with the other boys, it would be such fun?"

The Dragon's Gorge was not far off, and mother did not think that Helmut
could do himself any harm, except by getting wet and dirty, and that he
might do as well in the garden at home.

"If you put on your old suit and your thick boots, I think you may go.
Keep with the other boys and promise me not to get lost!"

"Oh, I say, won't it be fine fun! I'll run off and tell the other
fellows. Hurrah!" and Helmut ran off into the street. Soon four heads
were to be seen close together making plans for the next day.

"We'll start quite early at six o'clock," they said, "and take our
second breakfast with us." (In Germany eleven o'clock lunch is called
_second_ breakfast.) However it was seven o'clock a.m. before the boys
had had their first breakfast, and met outside the house.

How mother and father laughed to see the little fellows, all dressed in
the most warlike costumes like miniature soldiers, armed with guns and
swords.

Mother was a little anxious and hoped they would come to no harm; but
she liked her boy to be independent, and knew how happy children are if
left to play their pretence games alone. She watched the four set off at
a swinging march down the street. Soon they had recruits, for it was a
holiday, and there were plenty of boys about.

Helmut was commanding officer; the boys shouldered their guns, or
presented arms as he directed. They passed the pond and followed the
stream through the woods, until they came to the Dragon's Gorge, where
the rocks rise up suddenly high and imposing looking. Here they could
only proceed in single file. Helmut headed the band feeling as
courageous as in his dreams; his head swam with elation. Huge walls
towered above them; the rocks dropped water on their heads. As yet they
had seen or heard nothing of the dragon. Yet as they held their breath
to listen, they could hear something roaring under their feet.

"Don't you tell me that that is only water," said Helmut, "A little
brook can't make such a row as that--that's the dragon."

The other boys laughed, they were sceptical as to the dragon, and were
only pretending, whereas Helmut was in earnest.

"I'm hungry," said one boy, "supposing we find a dry place and have our
lunch!"

They came to where the path wound out again into the open air, and sat
down on some stones, which could hardly be described as dry. Here they
ate bread and sausage, oranges and bananas.

"Give me the orange peel, you fellows. Mother hates us to throw it
about; it makes the place so untidy." So saying Helmut pushed his orange
peel right into a crevice of the rock and covered it with old leaves.
But the other boys laughed at him, and chucked theirs into the little
stream, which made Helmut very angry.

"I won't be your officer any more, if you do not do as I say," he said,
and they began to quarrel.

"We're not going to fight your old dragon, we're going home again to
play football, that will be far better fun," said the boys who had
joined as recruits, and they went off home, till only Helmut's chums
were left. They were glad enough to get rid of the other boys.

"We have more chance of seeing the dragon without those stupid fellows,"
they said.

They finished their lunch, shouldered their guns again, and entered the
second gorge, which is even more picturesque and narrow than the first.

Suddenly Helmut espied something round, and slimy, and long lying on
the path before him like a blind worm, but much thicker than blind worms
generally are. He became fearfully excited, "Come along you fellows,
hurry up," he said, "I do believe it is the dragon's tail!"

They came up close behind him and looked over his shoulders; the gorge
was so narrow here that they could not pass one another.

"Good gracious!" they said, "whatever shall we do now?"

They all felt frightened at the idea of a real dragon, but they stood to
their guns like men, all but the youngest, Adolf, who wanted to run away
home; but the others would not let him.

"Helmut catch hold of it, quick now," whispered Werner and Wolf, the
other two boys.

Helmut stretched out his hand courageously; perhaps it was only a huge,
blind worm after all; but as he tried to catch it, the thing slipped
swiftly away. They all followed it, running as fast as they could
through the narrow gorge, bumping themselves against the walls,
scratching themselves and tearing their clothes, but all the time Helmut
never let that tail (if it was a tail) out of his sight.

"If we had some salt to put on it," said he, "we might catch it like a
dicky bird."

"It would be a fine thing to present to a museum," said Wolf.

Well, that thing led them a fine dance. It would stop short, and then
when they thought they had got it, it started off again, until they were
all puffing and blowing.

"We've got to catch it somehow," said Helmut, who thought the chase fine
sport. At that moment the gorge opened out again into the woods, and the
tail gave them the slip; for it disappeared in a crevice of the rock
where there was no room for a boy to follow it.

"It _was_ a blind worm you see," said Werner.

Presently, however, they heard a noise as of thunder, and looking down
the path they saw a head glaring at them out of the rocks, undeniably a
dragon's head, with a huge jaw, red tongue, and rows of jagged teeth.

The boys stared aghast: they were in for an adventure this time, and no
mistake. Slowly the dragon raised himself out of the rocks, so that they
saw his whole scaly length, like a huge crocodile. Then he began to move
along the path away from them. He moved quite slowly now, so there was
no difficulty in keeping up with him; but his tail was so slimy and
slippery that they could not keep hold of it; moreover it wriggled
dreadfully whenever they tried to seize it. But Helmut had inherited
the cool courage of the Wartburg knights, and he was not going to be
overcome by difficulties.

With a wild Indian whoop he sprang on the dragon's back, and all the
other boys followed his example, except little Adolf who was timid and
began to set up a howl for his mother, I'm sorry to say. No sooner were
the boys on his back than the dragon set off at a fine trot up and down
the Dragon's Gorge, they had to hold on tight and to duck whenever the
rock projected overhead, or when they went sharply round a corner.

"Hurrah," cried Helmut waving a flag, "this is better than a motor ride.
Isn't he a jolly old fellow?"

At this remark the jolly old fellow stopped dead and began to snort out
fire and smoke, that made the boys cough and choke.

"Now stop that, will you!" said Helmut imperatively, "or we shall have
to slay you after all, that's what we came out for you know." He pointed
his gun at the head of the dragon as he spoke like a real hero.

The dragon began to tremble, and though they could only see his profile,
they thought he turned pale.

"Where's that other little boy?" he asked in a hollow voice. "If you
will give him to me for my dinner, I will spare you all."

Helmut laughed scornfully, "Thanks, old fellow," he said--"you're very
kind, I'm sure Adolf would be much obliged to you. I expect he's run
home to his mother long ago; he's a bit of a funk, we shan't take him
with us another time."

"He looked so sweet and juicy and tender," said the dragon sighing, "I
never get a child for dinner nowadays! Woe is me," he sniffed.

"You are an old cannibal," said the boys horrified, and mistaking the
meaning of the word cannibal. "Hurry up now and give us another ride,
it's first-rate fun this!"

The dragon groaned and seemed disinclined to stir, but the boys kicked
him with their heels, and there was nothing for it but to gee-up.

After he had been up and down several times, and the boys' clothes were
nearly torn to pieces, he suddenly turned into a great crevice in the
rocks that led down into a dark passage, and the boys felt really
frightened for the first time. Daylight has a wonderfully bracing effect
on the nerves.

In a moment, however, a few rays of sunshine penetrated the black
darkness, and they saw that they were in a small cave. The next thing
they experienced was that the dragon shook himself violently, and the
small boys fell off his back like apples from a tree on to the wet and
sloppy floor. They picked themselves up again in a second, and there
they saw the dragon before them, panting after his exertions and filling
the cavern with a poisonous-smelling smoke. Helmut and Wolf and Werner
stood near the cracks which did the duty of windows, and held their
pistols pointed at him. Luckily he was too stupid to know that they were
only toy guns, and when they fired them off crack-crack, they soon
discovered that he was in a terrible fright.

"What have I done to you, young sirs?" he gasped out. "What have I done
to you, that you should want to shoot me? Yet shoot me! yes, destroy me
if you will and end my miserable existence!" He began to groan until the
cavern reverberated with his cries.

"What's the matter now, old chappie?" said Helmut, who, observing the
weakness of the enemy, had regained his courage.

"I am an anachronism," said the dragon, "don't you know what that
is?--well, I am one born out of my age. I am a survival of anything but
the fittest. _You_ are the masters now, you miserable floppy-looking
race of mankind. _You_ can shoot me, you can blow me up with dynamite,
you can poison me, you can stuff me--Oh, oh--you can put me into a cage
in the Zoological Gardens, you have flying dragons in the sky who could
drop on me suddenly and crush me. You have the power. We great creatures
of bygone ages have only been able to creep into the rocks and caves to
hide from your superior cleverness and your wily machinations. We must
perish while you go on like the brook for ever." So saying he began to
shed great tears, that dropped on the floor splash, splash, like the
water from the rocks.

The boys felt embarrassed: this was not their idea of manly conduct, and
considerably lowered their opinion of dragons in general.

"Do not betray me, young sirs," went on the dragon in a pathetic and
weepy voice, "I have managed so far to lie here concealed though
multitudes of people have passed this way and never perceived me."

"I tell you what," said Helmut touched by the dragon's evident terror,
"let's make friends with him, boys; he's given us a nice ride for
nothing; we will present him with the flag of truce."

Turning to the dragon he said: "Allow us to give you a banana and a roll
in token of our friendship and esteem."

"O," said the dragon brightening up, "I like bananas. People often throw
the skins away here. I prefer them to orange peel. I live on such
things, you must know, the cast-off refuse of humanity," he said,
becoming tragic again.

They presented him with the banana, and he ate it skin and all, it
seemed to give him an appetite. He appeared to recover his spirits, and
the boys thought it would be better to look for the way out. The cavern
seemed quite smooth and round, except for the cracks through which the
daylight came; they could not discover the passage by which they had
entered. The dragon's eyes were beginning to look bloodthirsty;
remembrances of his former strength shot across his dulled brains. He
could crush and eat these little boys after all and nobody would be the
wiser. Little boys tasted nicer than bananas even.

Meanwhile Wolf and Werner had stuck their flags through the holes in the
rocks, so that they were visible from the outside.

Now little Adolf had gone straight home, and had told awful tales of the
games the others were up to, and he conducted the four mothers to the
Dragon's Gorge where they wandered up and down looking for their boys.
Adolf observed the flags sticking up on the rocks, and drew attention to
them. The Dragon's Gorge resounded with the cries of "Helmut! Wolf!
Werner!"

The dragon heard the voices as well; his evil intentions died away; the
chronic fear of discovery came upon him again. He grew paler and paler;
clouds of smoke came from his nostrils, until he became invisible. At
the same moment Helmut groping against the wall that lay in shadow,
found the opening of the passage through which they had come. Through
this the three boys now crawled, hardly daring to breathe, for fear of
exciting the dragon again. Soon a gleam of light at the other end told
of their deliverance. Their tender mothers fell on their necks, and
scolded them at the same time. Truly, never did boys look dirtier or
more disreputable.

"We feel positively ashamed to go home with you," their mothers said to
them.

"Well, for once I was jolly glad you did come, mother," said Helmut.
"That treacherous old dragon wanted to turn on us after all; he might
have devoured us, if you had not turned up in the nick of time. Not that
I believe that he _really_ would have done anything of the sort, he was
a coward you know, and when we levelled our guns at him he was awfully
frightened. Still he _might_ have found out that our guns were not
properly loaded, and then it would have been unpleasant."

Mother smiled, she did not seem to take the story quite so seriously as
Helmut wished.

"We had a gorgeous ride on his back, mother dear; would you like to see
him? You have only to lie down flat and squeeze yourself through that
crack in the rocks till you come to his cave."

"No thank you," said mother, "I think I can do without seeing your
dragon."

"Oh, we have forgotten our flags!" called out Wolf and Werner, "wait a
minute for us," and they climbed up over the rocks and rescued the
flags. "He's still in there," they whispered to Helmut in a mysterious
whisper.

"Mother," said Helmut that evening when she came to wish him good night,
"do you know, if you stand up to a dragon like a man, and are not afraid
of him, he is not so difficult to vanquish after all."

"I'm glad you think so," said mother, "'Volo cum Deo'--there is a Latin
proverb for you; it means, that with God's help, will-power is the chief
thing necessary; this even dragons know. Thus a little boy can conquer
even greater dragons than the monsters vast of ages past."

"Hum!" said Helmut musingly, "mother, dear, I was a real hero to-day, I
think you would have been proud of me; but I must confess between
ourselves, that the old dragon was a bit of a fool!"




THE EASTER HARE


It is curious how little children of one country know about the lives
and interests of the children of another. Perhaps if English people
would send their children over to Germany, instead of their journalists,
singers, etc., the danger of an International war would be lessened. The
children would be sure to fall in love with Germany; for it is the land
above all others that appeals to children. Women are said to come first
in America, children are certainly the first consideration in Germany.
Froebel's motto: "Come let us live with our children," is nowhere better
carried out.

A little English girl, named Patsie, came over to visit her German
friends, Gretel and Barbara, shortly before Easter this year; and she
was much surprised to find all the shop-windows filled with hares; hares
made of chocolate, toy hares, hares with fine red coats on, hares
trundling wheelbarrows or carrying baskets full of Easter eggs. Moreover
there was no end to the picture post cards representing the hare in
various costumes, and in some connection with Easter eggs. One of these
post cards represented a hare crawling out of a large broken egg just
like a chicken.

Patsie asked her little friends eagerly what this all meant.

"Who is the Hare?" she said. "I do so want to know all about him."

"Why, _of course_, it is the Easter Hare," they replied.

"Is it possible that you have not heard of him? O, you _poor_ English
children! Why, he brings us the eggs on Easter Sunday morning!" said
Gretel.

"O don't you know," said Barbara, "he hides them in the garden, unless
it rains or is very wet; then we have to stay in our bedrooms for fear
of frightening him, and he lays them downstairs in the dining-room or
drawing-room. However, this has only happened once since I was born, and
I am nine years old; it _must_ be always fine at Easter."

"We have to let all the blinds down before he will come into our garden,
he is so dreadfully nervous," said Gretel. "Then he hides the eggs in
the most unexpected places, we have to hunt and hunt a long time before
we have found them all. Last year we discovered an egg some weeks
afterwards; luckily it was a glass one filled with sweeties; for if it
had been of chocolate, we could not have eaten it, after it had lain on
the damp mould, where the snails and worms would have crawled over it.
Some of the eggs are made of chocolate or marzipan or sugar, and some
are real eggs coloured blue or red or brown, or even sometimes with
pictures on them."

"We had two dear little baskets with dollies in them, and a big Easter
Hare made of gingerbread, as well as the eggs this year," said Barbara.
"We hunt and hunt in every corner of the garden, and then we divide our
treasures afterwards on two plates, so that is quite fair."

"You are lucky children, why does not the Hare come to England?" said
Patsie. "I am sure little English children would appreciate him too!"

"Well," said Gretel answering in verse:

 "My dear mother says to me,
  That he will not cross the sea;
  That he fears his eggs would break
  And his precious goods might shake.

  He's a fairy you must know,
  Little Barbara tells you so;
  When he cocks his ears and blinks,
  Then of Easter eggs he thinks."

"Yes," interrupted Barbara, "we really and truly saw him one Easter
Sunday morning when we came back from church, just at the end of our
street, where the gardens join the fields. He had a friend with him, or
perhaps it was Mrs Easter Hare. They both looked very alarmed when they
saw us, and tore off as fast as they could scuttle, and hid in the
corn-fields. I can't remember if he had his red coat on, can you,
Gretel?"

"No I don't think he had, he was quietly dressed in his brown fur suit,
with a white tail to the coat," said Gretel.

Now mother had been puzzled for some time to think whatever connection
there could be between Easter Day and the Hare, and she could not find
out. But the other day a kind friend told her: she could never have been
able to think of it herself, it is such a queer reason. The legend is
that as the Hare always sleeps with its eyes open, it was the only
living creature that witnessed the Resurrection of our Blessed Lord, and
therefore for ever afterwards it has become associated with Easter.

The Easter egg is easier to account for; the idea there is, that as the
little chicken breaks through the hard shell, and awakes to new life, so
Christ broke the bars of death on the first glorious Easter morning. So
the simple egg has become a symbol or sign of a great heavenly truth.
Even little children can understand this if they think about it, and
they will be able to find out other things too that are symbols in the
same way.

"One year," said Barbara to Patsie, "we spent Easter Sunday at a farm in
the country. We made beautiful nests of moss all ready for the Easter
Hare. And just when father had called to us to come out and look for the
eggs, we saw to our disgust that the great pigs with their dirty old
snouts were already hunting for them, so we rushed down and had to drive
them away first. The geese too seemed to want to join in the game; it
was fine fun, I can tell you. We filled our pinafores with the eggs."

"When we got home again, we found the Easter Hare had been there too; so
we were finely spoilt that year," said Gretel.

       *       *       *       *       *

Several weeks before Easter this year, before Patsie came to stay with
them, Gretel and Barbara went for an afternoon walk in the fields with
their father and mother. It was getting late when they returned; white
mists were rising over the River Nidda, until the trees in the distance
looked like ghosts. There was a strange feeling in the air, as if
something were going to happen; the children felt excited without
knowing why. Then they suddenly saw a bright light not far off from
them, along the path by the river. It seemed to revolve, then to change
its position, then it went out altogether. They thought they saw the
crouching form of a man beside the light; indeed father said that it was
probably a labourer lighting his pipe; but, when they looked again, it
was unmistakably a bush that had taken a human form in the twilight. The
children instinctively fell back nearer the grown-ups. There was
something creepy about that bush.

Suddenly a weird cry, shrill and piercing, broke the silence. It seemed
to come from just in front of them, and sounded awful; as if a baby were
being murdered. The children clutched hold of father's hand. "It was all
right as long as father and mother were there," they thought with the
touching confidence of children.

No one could imagine what it was. The stretching, ploughed fields on one
side could hide nothing, the little path along the river-bank was
clearly visible. As they approached the spot whence the crying had
seemed to proceed, all was silent again. Gretel had heard of the magic
flower Moly which screamed when it was pulled up by the roots; could
there be screaming bushes as well? But the cries had seemed to come from
the ploughed field, not from the river.

The sun had gone down, the air became darker and chillier. Suddenly the
cry began again; this time it seemed to proceed directly from an empty
tin lying near them on the ploughed field, broken and upside down. The
children stared with wide-open eyes at this mysterious old tin: they
could not make head or tail of it, of the tin I mean.

Then mother stooped and picked up a piece of egg-shell coloured a
beautiful red, that lay on the path, and held it up triumphantly. "What
do you say to that?" she asked the children.

"Why, it is a piece of a broken Easter egg, how queer," said the
children, "such a long time before Easter too."

"Do you know what I think?" said mother, almost in a whisper. "I think
the Easter Hare has been along here, perhaps he lives here, and that tin
hides the entrance to his house."

"Let's go and see," said the children. But at this moment the cries
broke out again, coming just from their very feet it seemed. They
sounded so uncanny that the children did not dare to move, or to
investigate the tin.

"If you disturb him now, you certainly will not get any Easter eggs this
year," said mother. "He's sure to be very busy painting them just now, I
dare say he cries like that to frighten you away from his home."

"I don't think so," said father, "he can hide and hold his tongue if he
wants to; it is the little baby hares who make that noise; but just as
we pass by, the mother hare manages to keep them quiet for a few minutes
by giving them something to put in their little mouths, I expect."

"I _would_ like to see them," said Barbara.

"No, come along, Barbara," said Gretel, "leave them alone, it would be
horrid to get no Easter eggs wouldn't it?"

       *       *       *       *       *

For many nights Barbara dreamt of the Easter Hare, and at last she made
up the following story about him, which she wrote out beautifully in
flowing German handwriting in an exercise-book. I thought little English
girls and boys would like to hear a story written by a little German
girl of nine years. So I have translated it for them here. It will give
them a good idea too of how the Easter Hare is regarded by German
children.


THE EASTER HARE FAMILY

_Story by_ BARBARA ARNDT

Two children, Paulchen and Luischen, were wandering about in the country
on Easter Day, they said sorrowfully to one another. "Has the Easter
Hare quite forgotten us this year?" For three hours they tramped about,
and hunted for eggs in every corner of the fields near the big forest.
Suddenly Paulchen found a huge egg; he called to Luischen to come at
once to see it, and she trotted along towards him, carrying a pretty
little nest filled with Easter eggs in her hands, which she had also
found.

The children were very happy; it was such a lovely sunny day, and they
were so delighted with their treasures. However they did not give up
hunting, and soon each of them found an Easter Hare made of the most
delicious chocolate. Then Luischen discovered an egg which she called an
April-fool's egg; for when she tried to lick it to see what it tasted
like, she found that it was made of soap.

"O, do come and see what a heap of eggs I've got," said Paulchen, in
tones of ecstasy.

Then little Luischen jumped up, calling out: "Look, look--O do come
here, quick, quick, and see those two beautiful big nests filled with
Easter eggs, and two lovely silver baskets beside them! O how exquisite!
The Easter Hare is too good, he is a darling, did you ever see such
beautiful things as he has given us. I can hardly hold mine!"

"Neither can I," said Paul, "but look over there, Luischen, there are
two large baskets. I expect they are meant for us, how very convenient!
We can put all our things into them."

"Let's go and fetch them at once," said Luischen. "Do you see that
pretty bush with silver palm-buds on it over there?" she continued, "we
will go and pick a few twigs from it and tie them on to our baskets with
some grass; then they will look more 'Eastery.'"

"If only we knew where the Easter Hare lives," they said somewhat sadly,
"we would go and call on him at once and thank him for all his kindness
to us."

"O but just look, Paulchen," said Luischen excitedly, "there is
something written on the rocks over there; perhaps the Easter Hare lives
there. Paulchen, you can read a little, do see if you can make out what
is written."

Paulchen read:

 "I am the Master Easter Hare
  Lay eggs, in plenty, everywhere."

"Come along, run, we will knock at the door," said Luischen joyfully. So
they went up to the rock and knocked.

"Come in," said a clear voice.

They went in and turned to the door on the right from which the voice
had come. They entered a comfortable room, and there on a cosy
easy-chair, there sat father Easter Hare, who had just put on his
spectacles to examine the eggs which his son, who was about seven years
old, had painted.

"Good morning, dear Mr Easter Hare, we have come to thank you for the
lovely eggs," said the children.

"_Dear, dear_," said Mr Easter Hare, "you found them of course in your
garden, or----?"

"Alas, no, we have no home, we are orphans; the people in the orphanage
did not treat us kindly, so we ran away, and meant to seek our fortune
in the wide world," said the children. "Then we were so lucky as to find
these beautiful eggs in the fields over there!"

"Dear me, so you are orphans!--well then perhaps you would like to stay
here with us and learn painting and housekeeping," said Mr Easter Hare.

"Oh yes indeed, we should simply love to!" answered the children, "but
where is your wife? Perhaps she will be able to teach us to be of some
use in the household."

"Well, well, my wife is in the kitchen cooking cabbage, and carrots, and
making a famous salad."

"Oh!" said both the children, "may we help her dress the salad?"

"Certainly, my wife will be very pleased to find that you can be so
useful; there, just opposite in the passage, is a door that leads into
the kitchen where my wife is busy."

The children followed his directions and went into the kitchen, and
there sat Mrs Easter Hare.

"Good morning, Mrs Easter Hare," said the children politely, curtsying
and bowing, "we have come to help you in the household, and to stay with
you till we are grown up; but now please let us make the salad."

"Well, that is very kind of you, I'm sure, to want to help me," said Mrs
Easter Hare, and the children set to work at once.

After this the children helped her every day in the kitchen in the
morning, and in the afternoon they learnt from father Easter Hare how to
paint the eggs smoothly and prettily, and how to read and write; for the
Easter Hare is educated, you must know, and far more intelligent than
ordinary hares. When they grew up and went out into the world again,
Paulchen became a celebrated artist and lived in the artist colony at
Cronberg, and little Luischen married, and became an exemplary
housewife; but their best friends throughout their lives were always

MR AND MRS EASTER HARE.




THE NIXY LAKE


In one of the wildest and most romantic parts of Germany, there is a
high mountain which is as renowned for the strange stories that are told
about it, as for its many natural peculiarities. It is flat on the top,
falling off precipitously on every side. In recent times a high tower
has been built on the very edge of the rock. Curious to say, the ground
on the summit of this mountain is a bog or morass; flat slabs of stone
have been placed on it to enable bold tourists to reach the tower
without sinking in unawares. There is a bronze ring on a balcony
surrounding the tower, with darts pointing in different directions,
showing where London, Paris, and St Petersburg, for instance, are
situated. I need hardly say that these towns are not visible, but that
if a straight line could be drawn from this spot, it would reach them.

Not far below the summit there is a mysterious-looking lake, which it is
strange indeed to find at so high a level. A huge cliff formed of
boulders of rock rises on the one side of the lake; it falls like a
great wall straight into the water; only daring little ferns and plants
have a foothold on it; the lake is inaccessible from this direction. A
narrow pathway winding in and out edged with water-reeds leads by it on
the other side. This lake is said to be so deep that it is unfathomable;
it is dark brown in colour, bitter and brackish to the taste. No fish
can live in it. Learned men, called geologists, who study the crust of
the earth, have decided that this region is not volcanic in origin as it
would appear at first sight, but that the lake is fed by water from the
morass.

This mountain is constantly visited by sudden violent atmospheric
disturbances, great winds and heavy thunderstorms, that spring up at a
moment's notice, striking terror into the hearts of any travellers who
may be caught in them.

Now several centuries ago, before the time of railways and steamboats, a
mighty king of the water-sprites lived in this lake with his three
beautiful daughters, the famed nixies of the lake.

The King was a majestic old man with long white beard and hair; his eyes
were black and sinister, and when he drew his eyebrows together in a
straight line over his eyes, his frown was terrible to behold. The
thunderstorms which devastated the country round, were attributed to
him. In his fits of rage, the village folk declared, he would hurl
stones and thunderbolts down from the mountain, heedless of what or whom
he might destroy.

The day would be fine, the sky blue, and in a moment a storm wind would
arise, clouds would cover the heavens, and lightning shoot forth; how
could this be accounted for by natural agency?

The nixies were much to be pitied, if the truth were known, for their
father was a stern old tyrant, and interfered constantly with their
harmless amusements, also prohibiting their leaving the lake to frolic
at midnight with the wood-spirits, whom he considered as beneath them in
rank.

On a warm day in the lovely month of June (which is the favourite month
of all the year for the water-nixies, for then the white and yellow
water lilies are in flower, and the yellow irises shine among the
water-reeds) the three sisters were swimming lazily to and fro, plunging
under the water like seals, to reappear like seals on the look-out for
something to happen. But nothing ever did happen but one of their
father's tempers, and of these they were tired enough as you may
imagine. They had not fishes' tails like their cousins the mermaids, but
slender limbs of dazzling whiteness. Their hair resembled beautiful
seaweed as they dived under the water, or when it spread out like a fan
on the surface.

The eldest, Clothilde, was dark; she was beautiful, but haughty, and
looked as if she had inherited her father's temper.

The youngest was very fair; she had the golden hair of a fairy, her eyes
were blue, but meaningless; there was little sense in their depths. Her
name was Elfrida.

The second sister, Lenore, was of a different type, and might have been
mistaken for a mortal maiden. Her hair was neither dark nor fair,
neither red nor brown, it was of a pale hazel colour and fell in
straight masses nearly to her feet. Her eyes were of a deep grey fringed
with dark lashes; they had a mysterious and pathetic look--a look caused
by longing after something indefinite and yet desired, or by a
prescience perhaps of coming disaster.

Lenore rose to the surface of the water. "Sisters," she called,
"sisters, listen to me," and she swam towards the shade of the rock, and
seated herself on a stony seat, half in half out of the water. "I can
bear the monotony of our existence no longer. I tire of this life of
ceaseless dancing, swimming, drifting. I want to visit the homes of men
who live in the village that lies below us at the foot of the mountain,
to hear stories of the world from which we are shut out, to share as far
as it is possible for us in the simple and homely amusements of
mortals."

"I am willing to go with you," said Clothilde, frowning discontentedly.
"I am tired too of this melancholy lake; the eternal nothingness of our
life oppresses me too." She tore a water-lily to pieces as she spoke.

"O do not do that!" said Lenore, almost as if in pain, "the flowers can
feel too!"

"What if they can!" said Clothilde scornfully; for the cruelty of the
nixies coursed through her veins.

"And you Elfrida," said Lenore, turning to her fairer sister, "will you
come with us?"

"Ah!" said Elfrida, "I prefer to stay here among the water-lilies. I
have no aspirations, I could live here for ever sleeping through the
winter months, dreaming through the summer ones, yet if you go, I will
go too; for we three have never been separated, and I should be afraid
if I were left alone with my father." As she spoke she placed a
water-lily in her golden hair; the sunbeams struck through the fir-trees
by the lake and fell on her, till she looked like some wonderful fairy
princess, too exquisite to be real.

A young man happened to be passing the lake just at this moment; he
caught the entrancing picture as if it were a vision from Heaven; his
brain reeled, his breath failed him, he would have fallen in a swoon;
but then he met Lenore's eyes, grave, calm, and searching. A wild
longing and deep melancholy seized on him. He rushed towards the lake,
and clutched hold of the branches of a young willow, only just in time
to prevent himself from falling into those treacherous depths.

With a weird cry and their white arms raised over their heads, the
nixies disappeared in the lake. The young man gazed as one bewitched;
crossed himself in fear; and gazed again. All was silent: no living
creature stirred; only the sunbeams fell athwart the lake, and little
cascades of water fell over the surface of the rock.

"I have seen the nixies of the pool," thought the young man, who was the
son of a rich peasant farmer in the village. "Surely that means that I
shall die ere long. I should not fear death," he continued, "if I were
to die in battle in honourable and open conflict; but to die young,
stricken by some awful and unaccountable fate, that would be terrible."

As he turned homewards, a wind arose that nearly hurled him into the
lake; so violent was the gust, and a storm burst forth, the like of
which he had never experienced before. Branches were torn from the
trees, and hurled in his path; the lightning was continuous and nearly
blinded him. Glancing fearfully back at the lake, the waters seemed to
have arisen in great waves, and he thought he saw the nixy King himself
raging and roaring like a wild creature, casting the storm winds forth
from their fortresses in the rocks, holding the lightning like fireworks
in his long fingers, and hurling it across the land. Terrified,
half-stunned by the thunder, and stupefied by the hail and rain, he at
last reached home, where his mother awaited him in great anxiety.
However he soon had off his wet, torn clothes, and casting himself on
his bed fell into a profound slumber. He slept for nearly a night and a
day, and when he awoke his adventures seemed to him a wild dream, and
like a dream were half-forgotten although they exerted a subtle
influence on his waking thoughts that he was unaware of.

Meanwhile the nixies, and especially Lenore, had been anxious as to his
fate. Not until she had sent their dwarf messenger into the village to
make inquiries as to his welfare, could she be at rest. Her wish to
visit the homes of men became a passion, a burning desire that could not
be quenched. She called on her dread father; three times she cried out
to him, and her sisters echoed the call. Then he arose from the depths,
majestic and so terrible to behold that Lenore almost lost the courage
to address him. But he listened to her request in silence, brooding,
while great ravens whirled and swooped in the sky above their heads.
Then he spoke:

"It is decreed that no one can alter the path of fate, or avoid the doom
that is written in the stars. The hour has come: I have foreseen this
day; go, my daughters, go. But remember there is one condition which you
must strictly obey. One night in the week you may be absent from the
lake; but as the hour strikes twelve, you must be back again in these
waters. I shall send a messenger to fetch you, the dwarf Hunold, beware
lest you keep him waiting! If you disobey, destruction will overtake
you, and your home will know you no more." He sank gloomily into the
lake; the day was oppressive; no rain fell and the evening brought no
relief. Strange and uneasy were the dreams of many that night in the
little village.

Some young people returning late from a social gathering, reported that
they had seen a bright, uncanny light in the sky, like a fire, or some
said like a golden hand, at midnight over the ill-omened mountain.

In those days when it was so difficult to travel from place to place,
the villagers were obliged to depend on themselves for amusement and
entertainment. In the villages round about the mountain it was the
custom for the young people to meet together at each other's houses on
Saturday evenings. Those who had rooms large enough, took it in turns to
invite all the rest; the girls brought their spinning-wheels, and the
room where they met was called the spinning-room. The girls were busy
and merry at the same time. Stories were told, and songs were sung, the
young men smoked and drank wine, and not infrequently the
spinning-wheels were cleared away and there was dancing. Strangers were
welcome; for the peasants were renowned for their hospitality; but
seldom did it happen that travellers passed that way; some young fellow
perhaps might drop in who was wandering about for a year or so before
settling down to the work of his life as the German custom is; but
tourists were few when roads were bad and money scarce.

One lovely summer's evening at the end of June the full moon was shining
in the sky, the latticed windows of the peasant's house where the young
folk were assembled, were wide open; the air was laden with the scent of
the white lilies and roses that grew in the garden at the back of the
cottage. There was no light as yet but that of the moon in the parlour;
the spinning-wheels too were silent; for stories were being told; one
more marvellous than the other, of ghosts and goblins, of dwarfs and
mountain-spirits, and naturally enough awful tales of the neighbouring
nixy King, and of his three daughters who lived in the enchanted lake.

Hermann, the young man who had been overtaken by the thunderstorm, was
present this evening; he was silent and glum, though the most charming
village maidens chaffed him and tried to captivate him, and the peasant
girls in this part of Germany are renowned for their beauty and their
grace. The melancholy which was not so much part of his natural
disposition as due to the adventures of that evening, fell on him again
like a dark cloud oppressing his brain. The girls who had been listening
to the stories, were by this time worked up to a state of feeling which
can only be described by the words creepy, or eerie. Most of them
experienced that unaccountable sensation which Germans call GÃ¤nsehaut
(goose-flesh). So that a sudden knock at the door caused them to cry out
in fear and clutch hold of their sweethearts. The knock was repeated
three times before anyone summoned up courage to open the door. Then the
assembled company fell back in astonishment as three beautiful young
girls entered the room, each holding a spinning-wheel under her arm.
They walked erect like princesses, everyone was sure they must be of
high rank. They wore dresses of some shimmering material such as the
village folk had never seen before, and necklaces of pearls, silken hose
and silver shoes.

Hermann's heart beat to bursting as he beheld them: where had he seen
them before? Surely they were the nixies of the magic pool, and his doom
had fallen upon him. Never, never, had he been able to forget Lenore's
eyes. Their mournful beauty haunted his dreams. He met them now, as his
breath came and went in great gasps; and there was a flash of
recognition between them. "What heavenly beauty, what a noble air she
has," he thought, hardly regarding her sisters who were strictly
speaking far more beautiful.

The three nixies, for of course it was they, put forth all their
fascinating arts to ingratiate themselves with the young people
assembled there.

"You are pleased to see us, are you not?" they said. "We have heard of
the fame of your spinning-evenings, and have come from a far country to
take part in them. You shall see how we can spin."

"Very gratifying for us, I am sure," murmured the officiating president
of the club.

"Now do not let us disturb you, you were telling stories I believe as
we entered," said Lenore, who, being the most human, took the lead in
the conversation.

But no one dared to open his mouth, even those who had been the most
eager to narrate wild tales before, seemed stricken with dumbness now.

"You could tell us a story, I believe," she said, turning to Hermann,
who could only shake his head. "Then I must tell one myself," she said
with a little sigh. She poured forth an extraordinary story to which the
peasants listened open-mouthed, the tale of a terrible doom that
overtook a faithless lover.

"A mortal man," she said, "had made love to a beautiful nixy, and won
her affection in return. But because she was not human, he did not think
of marrying her, but became engaged to a village maiden who was good and
sweet, if not so beautiful as the nixy. But the nixy had her revenge.
She swam under the bridge where the little river ran through the fields,
and one day as the two were walking in the dewy meadows, she caused the
waters to rise suddenly in a great flood, and tore her lover away from
his human bride down with her in the stream, choking him under the water
till he was dead. Then she sat with his head on her lap, and stroked his
beautiful dark curls, and wept until she dissolved in tears, and became
part of the water, which has been slightly salt from that day. The
village maiden was married to a rich old peasant not long afterwards; so
much for human fidelity," said Lenore, fixing her sad eyes on Hermann.

"He well-deserved his fate," said Hermann, "who chose the lesser when he
might have had the greater love."

"I think the nixy was a mean, wicked thing," said a young girl, almost a
child, called Brigitte, with soft, dark eyes, and a sweet expression on
her face. "She could not really have cared for her lover, or she would
have wanted him to be happy with the village girl, as she knew she could
not marry him herself."

"Never," said Hermann, excitedly, whose blood was coursing like fire in
his veins, "better death in the arms of the beloved, than a contented
life with lower aims!"

The men laughed.

"Now who would have thought that Hermann was so romantic!" they said.
"And he has the fattest pigs and the biggest casks of wine in the
village!"

Songs were proposed; everyone joined in; the voices of the nixies were
heard above all, clear and beautiful as a bell. They began with one of
the best-known songs in the German language which is always sung on
especially jovial occasions, it begins:

 "I cannot tell why or wherefore
    A legend of olden times
  Deep in my heart is singing,
    In mournful rhythmic rhymes."

After several songs had been sung in unison, Hermann begged the young
man who was the host that evening to ask the beautiful strangers to sing
a song alone and of their own choosing, he longed to hear their voices,
unspoilt by those of others.

The nixy maidens readily complied: was not singing their most natural
mode of expressing themselves? They sang these verses to a weird,
haunting melody:

 "The wild-fowl are calling: come back to the lake!
  O nixies come back, or your proud hearts must break;
  The moonbeams are glancing, the fairies are dancing,
  Come back.

  The grey mists are rising! Beware, O beware!
  For though you are slender and though you are fair,
  Your treacherous waters, O nixy king's daughters,
  Can slay.

  Beware the king's anger--O tempt not your fate,
  The white water-lilies your coming still wait;
  Wide open each flower until the twelfth hour--
  Beware!"

The old pendulum clock on the wall struck eleven. How fast the time had
flown! The three beautiful maidens rose up hastily and departed, wishing
a courteous "good night" and "good luck to you" to the company.

As Hermann opened the door for them, he saw a little dwarf with a
lighted lantern waiting for them outside the door, and much as he wished
to accompany them home, he did not dare to do so.

When they had left the room, a storm of conjecture burst forth; at last
everyone agreed that they must be the nixies of the lake.

"We did not like the look of their eyes; they were so cold and
treacherous," said some of the girls who were jealous of a beauty that
they felt they could never attain to.

"You are ill-natured things, not fit to sweep the floor for such
exquisite creatures," said Hermann angrily; and the whole company began
to jeer and to laugh at him, saying:

"Hermann has fallen in love with the nixies. Many a wet kiss will he
have from them--ha--ha!--but cold water will be his bridal bed, and
death the groomsman--ha, ha!"

"Do not be so cruel," said kind little Brigitte, who had blamed the nixy
in the story. "See how pale Hermann looks, he will faint in another
minute; he has never been strong since he was out in that awful storm."

Hermann could bear the conversation no longer; hastily saying good night
he went home with wild thoughts in his head, and, alas! wild,
ungovernable love in his heart.

For the next few weeks on Saturday evenings the same thing happened.
There was the usual social gathering, no one was absent; the little room
could hardly hold the thronging guests. Then there was the eagerly
looked for knock at the door, and the three lovely maidens entered and
shared so naturally in what was going on that the young people gradually
lost somewhat of their awe of them. Who could spin so fast and so finely
as the three strangers; who could sing such entrancing songs; who could
tell more wonderful stories!

Hermann generally managed to sit by Lenore, and to hold her hand, and he
knew his love was returned.

Naturally the exquisite Elfrida, and the stately Clothilde had their
admirers as well.

"Soon they will have taken all our sweethearts away from us, the nasty
creatures," whispered some of the village girls under their breath, "and
they cannot marry all the lads in the country round. The men are
bewitched, that is certain--no good can come of it. Most of the men
realise it, however, and will come back to us in time; all except
Hermann. He is so far gone that it is quite hopeless to try and
influence him."

"I am sorry for Lenore," said little Brigitte, "I would do anything I
could to help her; she looks so _very_ unhappy!"

On the night of the 9th of September the spinning evening was to be at
Hermann's house, which was a splendid building in its way, like a great
wooden castle. He was feverish with excitement. He bought and gathered
all the flowers he could get together, and decked the house as for a
wedding-feast. His mother could not bake cakes that were fine enough to
suit his taste; the furniture seemed to him clumsy and old-fashioned. He
would gladly have strewn rose-leaves, instead of rushes, on the floor
for his lady-love to tread on. All the time a voice was telling him to
desist: that such love could never be hallowed; that his bride was but a
myth, a dream that would vanish away. His mother was terribly troubled
about him, and feared that the boy had lost his wits in the
thunderstorm.

"You shall see my bride to-night, mother," he said. "Ah, there is no one
like her!"

But the old woman trembled and shook and crossed herself, she knew not
why. She felt a presentiment of coming evil.

"She shall not escape from me so soon to-night," thought Hermann to
himself. "I know what I will do: I shall put the clock an hour back, so
that when it is really twelve o'clock, they will think it is only
eleven. One hour, one blessed hour more in her company, snatched in
defiance of fate!"

Never had Hermann been more charming as a host than he was to-night. He
bade his guests heartily welcome and shook them warmly by the hand.
True, he was somewhat distracted and gave strange answers to questions
that were put to him. His eyes were constantly on the door. It opened at
last, and the three entered; they looked lovelier than ever; they had on
golden shoes and wore golden girdles. Their dresses were white edged
with pale green like water-lilies with a green calyx. There was to be no
spinning to-night. Hermann had provided for music and dancing; he became
giddy and his senses failed him almost at the thought of dancing with
the lovely Lenore.

Ah what light little feet! They hardly seemed to touch the ground as
they flew round; but the time too sped by with great rushing wings,
though Hermann had striven to check its headlong course. They paid no
heed to the dwarf and his constant warning taps on the door; the three
sisters were too engrossed in the delights of the dance. But suddenly
Lenore glanced at the clock; it pointed to eleven.

"A few moments more, my belovÃ¨d," she said, "and then we must part. But
why are you so pale?" she asked of Hermann, whose heart was beating fast
enough to suffocate him; for he was afraid now of the consequences of
his deed.

"Lenore," he said chokingly, "it is midnight; I hope I have not done
wrong. I put back the clock. I wanted to keep you all longer at my
house."

Lenore turned deadly pale, then she told her sisters of the fatal trick
that Hermann had played on them, and they too turned white as the chalk
on the walls; well they knew their father and what his revenge might be!

Murmuring a sad farewell Lenore gazed for the last time in Hermann's
eyes, and then the dark night swallowed her up for ever.

The dwarf's lantern could be seen from time to time among the forest
trees like a will-o'-the-wisp; then that too vanished.

The dancing and feasting went on for some time; but Hermann's heart was
sick within him; he had no spirit left for the revelry. An indescribable
feeling of terror and anxiety possessed him. The clock struck twelve;
the guests dispersed. They had hardly left the house when a terrific
storm broke forth, appalling in its awful violence; the house shook,
trees were uprooted, lightning blazed continually. The tempest was
nothing, however, compared to that in Hermann's breast; he could not
rest or sleep; fearful visions assailed him: he seemed to hear his
beloved Lenore calling him, or begging for mercy from her cruel father.

Towards morning the storm had somewhat abated though it was by no means
over. Hermann rushed out of the house, taking a wild pleasure in
battling with the fierce elements. Up and up with a certain step he went
towards that lake where all his anguish had begun, and yet where all his
hopes and desires were centred. As he approached the lake through the
fir-wood, the sky over the great cliff was rosy in the early dawn, the
birds were singing, the harebells raised their dew-drenched heads and
looked at him. No motion--no sound--the lake was cruel it seemed to him
in its indifference to his grief. "Lenore," he cried, "Lenore!"

Then the waters of the lake stirred and three waves arose, each one
greater than the last, and in the third was the nixy king with a cruel
expression on his face.

"Ah, call for Lenore," he said mockingly, "but you will never see her
again!--Behold, the doom of the disobedient daughters is fulfilled." As
he spoke the lake stirred again, the waters whirled round, three
exquisite rose-leaves rose from the depths of the lake and floated on
the surface of the water. "Never again will you or any mortal man behold
the nixies of the pool; they are changed into rose-leaves; this was
their punishment," he said, "a poetical punishment--ha, ha!" and he
vanished with a tremendous clap of thunder.

More than half-mad Hermann stumbled home; for weeks he lingered between
life and death.

The kind little Brigitte would have liked to have taken care of him, and
would have made him a good wife; but because of his consuming love for
Lenore, he slowly pined away, until one day he was found lying dead
beside the fatal lake.




KING REINHOLD


There are villages in the heart of the Taunus Mountains that are little
altered by this progressive age; no railway, not even the post-chaise
reaches them, and motor-cars are only to be seen as they whirr past
occasionally on the high road.

Such a village is Elhalten; it lies in a green valley, rich with many
flowers; a lovely little brook runs through it, disappearing suddenly
under houses to reappear again triumphant farther down the road. This
brook is called the Silber Bach or Silver Brook, on account of the
clearness of its water. On either side of the valley rise up steep
mountain-slopes with wild woods and rough pathways. One good road joins
the village with Vockenhausen, and so with the well-known town of
Eppstein.

On the farther side of the KÃ¼ppel (the steep peak that rises behind
Elhalten) is a forester's cottage, a lonely and deserted-looking
dwelling in the middle of the forest. There I once nursed a huge
friendly cat who was so delighted to see a stranger that she quite
persecuted me with her affection.

On the top of the KÃ¼ppel is an airy tower; anyone who wishes to try what
flying is like, and cannot afford to go in the Zeppelin airship, can
form an idea of it here. There is a most expansive view of the Taunus
Range, and very little underneath the feet.

In the forester's hut lived a little boy named Hugo. He was the son of
the forester, a fine little fellow of nearly six years. Hugo had few
story-books; but he did not need them; for he lived in the forest, and
the forest tells its own tales to the children who live there. The birds
would chatter to him, and tell him their family histories; the silent,
sweet-eyed deer came to the forestry to be fed in the cold winter, and
so he learnt to know their ways. The little flowers would whisper tales
of the strange sights they had seen in the forest, when they had by
chance forgotten to close their petals for the night.

Hugo had seen much for a five year's old boy; but he longed to see more.
He had heard stories of wood-goblins, of fairies and nixies, and of the
busy dwarfs who live underground. He thirsted for adventure.

Now I must tell you that just about this time the news had come from
Elhalten that a child had been lost from the village, a dear little
girl of four years. She had strayed by herself in the woods of the
KÃ¼ppel, and though her parents and Hugo's father, indeed all the
villagers had sought for her, no trace could they find, save strips of
her little blue pinafore, and a hair ribbon on the brambles in a remote
spot near an old quarry. You can imagine what a stir this made in the
quiet life of the neighbourhood.

Some people spoke of gipsies, some of deep holes or pools in the woods;
others did not say much, but they thought of the wood-spirits and
fairies and shook their heads. Hugo had many a time played with pretty
baby Elsa; her father and the forester were friends, and she had spent
the day sometimes in the forestry on the KÃ¼ppel. You may imagine that
the children were more strictly watched over than usual. Hugo's mother
kept a sharp eye on him; for she knew that his little head was full of
all sorts of queer notions.

It happened that, about a fortnight after these events, Hugo's father
went out for a night's hunting. His mother had been busy all the
afternoon; the weather was hot and sultry. At last drowsiness overcame
her and she fell asleep with her head on the kitchen table. Now she was
certainly not given to falling asleep in the afternoon, she was
generally much too busy for that; so I really think she must have been
bewitched. The fairies sometimes put sleeping draughts into people's
coffee; then it is all up with them.

Now was Hugo's opportunity. He hastily took up the brown (or grey as it
is called in Germany) rye-bread and sausage that stood ready for his
supper, packed it into a beautiful green case, with two May-bugs painted
on it, snatched up his toy gun in case of accidents, and set out with a
brave heart to look for little Elsa.

I must tell you that he had dreamt of her repeatedly since her
disappearance. She seemed to look at him with her wistful blue eyes, and
to implore his help. A rhyme rang constantly in his head that seemed to
have reference to her; but he could not quite make out what it meant:

 "King Reinhold found a little maid
  Alone within the forest glade;
  She wept and cried in sore distress,
  All torn and tattered was her dress;
  He set her on a golden throne,
  He gave her playthings for her own.
  But still she wept the livelong day,
  She would not laugh, and would not play.
  'This is most tiresome to behold;
  What shall I do?' said King Reinhold."

The little maid was probably Elsa; but where was she? Who was King
Reinhold? How could Hugo deliver her? He could not answer these
questions. "I must trust to luck, and hope that the fairies will help
me. Heigho for adventures!"

It was the twilight hour; the sky was of a delicate grey-green tint, the
birds called to their roving mates to come home to bed, a few faint
stars appeared in the sky; mystery hung in the air.

On Hugo went--following a circle of green and gold that was marked on
the trees and seemed to show him the way. He sang and shouted merrily to
keep up his spirits; it was supper-time, and the night air had made him
hungry; so he unpacked his bread and sausage and made a good meal. The
moon had risen, and threw a glimmer of light through the trees; the
lingering shades of twilight vanished. On one side of the little path
was the dark fir-wood, impenetrable in its gloom, on the other, beeches
and oaks. Little harebells, and pink centaury bordered the pathway.
There was a lovely woody smell in the late summer night, a smell of damp
earth, and fungi and flowers, or rather a combined perfume still more
subtle and indescribable.

The stillness and loneliness began to oppress our hero a little for the
first time. If he had been a town child he would have been horribly
frightened long before this; but he was as used to the silence of the
woods, as you may be to the noise and bustle of the street.

Suddenly a muffled sound broke the silence: knock, knock, knock, like
the blow of hammers when the workmen are busy at some distance. Hugo's
brave little heart began to beat; for he knew that the noise must be
made by the Kobolds at work on their anvils deep underground.

Then he was aware of footsteps behind him: tramp, tramp, tramp. Was it
his father come to fetch him home? He rather hoped that it might be so;
but when he plucked up courage to turn round, there was no one there! An
owl screeched; a bush rustled near him; he turned round sharply, and
there he saw a little old man with a huge key in his hand sitting on a
felled tree-trunk. His bright blue eyes gleamed strangely in the
moonshine, and his shaggy grey hair stood up on either side of his
red-peaked cap. He wore a jacket of green, lined with scarlet, and had
on heavy wooden shoes such as the peasants wear in some parts of
Germany. He plucked a dandelion clock that grew by the way and held it
up to the moon.

"One, two, three," up to nine the little man counted.

"Nine o'clock! Come along hurry up," said he, and he took Hugo by the
hand.

Instantly the child was able to see many things in the forest which he
had not observed before; strange fairy forms came floating by and gazed
at him with sad, sweet eyes; then a stream of laughing elves passed him
in wild frolic. Yes, once he thought that through the trees he saw the
gigantic form of the Old King himself, throned on his mountain.

Down, down a narrow bypath they clambered, over stones and through
brambles, and interlaced branches. Then they crossed a trout stream
silver clear in the moonlight. The trout were asleep; but when the dwarf
leant over the little stone bridge and whispered a few words--flash and
they were off, far far down the stream; they hid under the rushes and
tree-roots by the banks and quaked for fear. They dreaded the dwarfs and
with reason.

"Boiled trout with a fine butter sauce, that is my favourite dish," said
the little man to Hugo and smacked his lips greedily.

They walked along the beautifully overshadowed pathway by the trout
stream, watching the moonlight on the rippling water, till they left the
brook behind, and came to a green meadow in the centre of which stood a
venerable oak-tree, which still bore green leaves though its trunk was
completely hollow.

The tree was lit from within by a brilliant glow of rosy light. The
dwarf approached on tiptoe, taking off his clumsy shoes, and beckoning
to Hugo to follow him quietly. They peeped through the holes in the
trunk of the tree, and O what a sight they saw!

Twenty or more of the tiniest children, scarcely bigger than my finger,
sat or danced or rolled on the green mossy carpet of the tree-room.
These were the fairy babies, and this was the fairies' nursery. Each
little girl had a dolly made of the loveliest flowers, and a cradle of
green oak leaves, sewed together by grass blades.

The tiny Fee babies lay on their backs and kicked and crowed for joy,
and the biggest of all the fairies present gave them their bottles,
filled with moonshine and honey-dew on which the babies thrive. The boy
elves made the most noise; they had captured a field mouse, a huge
creature it seemed in comparison with them, and they were all trying to
ride on its back at once.

Hugo was so delighted with the lovely sight that he could not resist
calling out "Oh!" in tones of ecstasy. In an instant, puff! the light
went out; a cold fog arose; Hugo saw his dwarf companion change into a
big black bear terrible to behold. Just as our hero thought he was going
to be eaten up, the Kobold resumed his natural form.

"Be silent if you would be wise," he said, and that was all.

They followed the little pathway further through the meadow and into the
woods again, until they came suddenly on a great pile of rocks,
picturesquely heaped up amongst the trees, such as are so common in the
Taunus Mountains. The dwarf went up to the rock, key in hand, and
searched about until he had found a secret door. Then he fitted the key
into the lock and turned it, then tugged and tugged to open the door.
Suddenly it swung open, creaking noisily, and the dwarf lay on his back.
Up he got grumbling and scolding. "They ought to have oiled the hinges,
the lazy louts," he said.

As the door opened, Hugo saw a long corridor before him, lit by stars of
light, and countless mirrors reflected the stars in every direction. The
effect was rather too dazzling after the dark night, and Hugo's eyes
blinked. Down, down, down, the corridor gradually descended and seemed
never-ending. "However shall I get out again?" thought Hugo anxiously.
He did not know you see that there are many ways out of magic land.

At last they came to another door, made of crystal glass, and entered a
large hall with a sparkling roof of rock crystal. In the centre was a
fountain, a more wonderful creation fairyland does not contain. Hugo
held his breath for fear of saying "Oh!" again. Strange gnomes and
fairies seemed to be alive in it, and the element it contained, was not
water, but fire. The most marvellous display of fireworks that you have
ever seen, would be nothing in comparison.

Sometimes it illustrated well-known fairy tales: Snowdrop in her glass
coffin, Cinderella trying on the shoe and so on. Hugo could have watched
it for ages, and left it reluctantly, looking back all the time. Then
they passed through an arched doorway, and a new scene met their view.

Multitudes of little dwarf men dressed in Court attire stood round the
room. Facing them, on a throne of gold, with a tiny crown of gold
starred with bright-eyed diamonds on her head sat a real little human
girl, with a shabby old dolly in her arms. She was a very pretty little
girl, grandly dressed in a frock of blue silk embroidered with white
daisies, little blue socks and shoes with diamond buckles. But her face
was sad and pale, and her eyes red from crying, and her fair hair hung
in tangled locks over her shoulders. She held her dolly clasped tight in
her arms and repeated over and over again: "I want my mamma, I want to
go home to my mamma."

As the dwarf, followed by Hugo, entered the room the dwarfs or Kobolds,
as they are also called, bowed down with their heads to the ground, and
sang in a gruff chorus:

 "Hail, thrice hail, to King Reinhold,
  We his subjects true and bold
  Bow in homage to our king,
  Each his cap on high must fling!"

With that each Kobold threw his peaked cap up to the roof and caught it
again on his head, or his foot, or on his nose as the case might be.
Then they all shouted "Hurrah!" and it was as if a mighty flock of
ravens were to croak all together. The little girl put her hands up to
her ears, and was about to cry again when she saw Hugo. Then she jumped
up eagerly with a cry of joy and sprang down the golden steps.

"O you dear, good Hugo," she said, "have you come to fetch me home? I
knew you would come," she continued, "for I have dreamt of you so
often."

Hugo looked into the sweet little face before him and, in spite of her
fine clothes and diamond crown, he recognised little Elsa, his lost
playmate. He remembered his dreams, and all seemed to grow clear. He
felt himself very big and strong and important all at once. Putting his
arms protectingly round the little girl, he said facing the whole
assembly: "I have come to take this little girl, Miss Elsa, home to her
mamma."

King Reinhold (for it was the king of the dwarfs himself who had
accompanied Hugo) took up a heavy crown that lay on a cushion beside
him, put it on, and then took it off again, grumbling that it was too
heavy and did not fit him properly.

Then he cleared his throat and addressed his courtiers in these words:
"Hum! Hum! Hum! My esteemed subjects! I found this little girl some
weeks ago in the woods, within the magic circle of my domain. She was
crying bitterly, and seemed very frightened. I comforted her as best I
could. I gave her strings of pretty beads and a tiny fan of blue jay's
feathers. I promised to take her with me, and give her a crown of gold,
to set her on a golden throne, and make her Queen of all the dwarfs. I
even condescended to offer her a kiss; but I am sorry to say the
ungrateful child smacked me in the face (cries of "shame.") There she
sits, look at her! how has she repaid me for all my kindness and for all
the honours I have conferred on her?" (Here Elsa began to cry again and
to clutch tight hold of Hugo's hand.) "She does nothing but blubber all
day, and cuddle her dolly, and say she wants to go home to her mamma! I
appeal to you, my Kobolds, is such a baby worthy to be Queen of our
realm, of a people more ancient than the mountains, older indeed than
mankind; for we were the first inhabitants of the earth, we are
Primitive Man!"

A roar of applause met this speech and cries of "She is not worthy, let
her be deposed," were heard. "She is really too young, she is but a baby
still," said one kindly looking old grandpapa Kobold.

King Reinhold raised his hand to command silence, and continued in a
loud, harsh voice: "When she is older, she will become too big for us;
mortals have the strange habit of growing. No, I have thought the matter
over. Young birds are after all safest in the nest. But this baby would
never be able to find the way home, not even down her own street. So I
have chosen this brave young man to take her home." Here he gave Hugo a
slap on the back that nearly knocked him down, for dwarfs are very
strong in spite of their smallness, you know.

Elsa's face began to beam, and she would have danced for joy; but the
King's uncomplimentary remarks hurt her a little. _She_ was quite sure
that she could find her way home, a big girl of four years ought
certainly to know her own house. She knew exactly where it stood. Near
the rushing silver brook, a low, red-roofed house, and a barn with black
beams, also cocks and hens and geese strutting about in the little yard.
It was quite near the water-mill; she could hear the rushing of the
water as she lay in her little bed under her big feather sack, with only
her little nose and ears peeping out. A fir-tree with a very tall stem
and a thick bushy head stood at the back of the house.

Yes, she was sure that she could find it.

Meanwhile some of the dwarfs were marshalled off to get the carriage
ready for the children. Then Hugo summoned up courage to address the
King.

"O King!" he said, "I have heard of the wonders of your kingdom and of
the marvellous skill of you workmen"--here he stammered a little and his
oratory gave way--"I should so much like to see something of it," he
said shyly.

"Certainly, certainly, with the greatest pleasure," said King Reinhold,
and looked much gratified. "Intelligent child," he muttered. "Ho,
Dickkopf, bring me a torch, and lead the way to the workshop," he said.

Off he marched with majestic tread, and Hugo followed with Elsa, her
little warm hand clasped tight in his own; through dark passages and
caves lit by a pale light; through store-rooms where masses of minerals
were piled up gleaming in wonderful colours; through the treasure-houses
containing gold and silver and precious stones in huge quantities.

The children's eyes grew round in their heads as they saw all this
wealth; but they did not understand much about the value of these
treasures; toys or sweeties would have been more to their taste.

At last they reached a long, narrow hall where thousands of little men,
with leather aprons on, sat busy at work. Each was employed in adorning
and completing some work of art: costly goblets, beautiful chain rings,
and necklaces were there, such as were never seen in the finest shops of
Paris, Berlin or London.

The "joy of the making" was written on every countenance; for the artist
is always happy when at work.

One dwarf was illuminating a book, and a beautiful design of grasses and
butterflies grew up under his clever fingers.

"Take the book," said King Reinhold to Hugo. "It is only a tiny chapter
from the great book of Nature that has neither beginning nor end. But if
you study it carefully and earnestly, it will always bring you hope and
happiness, whatever your learned men may say to the contrary. Hold the
pages to the light, and you will see that they are transparent."

As Hugo did so with the deepest interest, behold! the pictures became
alive; the butterflies changed into fairies and laughed, and nodded at
him in a friendly way.

"Look _through_ the book of Nature till you find the soul of things,"
said King Reinhold.

Although this sounded very deep and mysterious, Hugo seemed to
understand. Do you, I wonder, little children, who read this story? Or
are you like the boy in the kindergarten to whom I was telling a fairy
story and who interrupted me contemptuously with the remark: "Fairies
don't exist!"

"O don't they my little man!" said I. "Well _you_ think so."

Presently we read of a ball that grew, and he spoke again with great
energy: "Balls don't grow."

"Oh, Oh!" said I, "Have you ever seen a little green apple." Then I
tried to show him what wonderful things are always happening in this
world of ours, if only we have eyes to see them. I do not think I
convinced him; for he was very pig-headed and had a great opinion of
himself; and such people big or little are very difficult to argue with.

To Elsa, Reinhold gave a handful of exquisite roses. "In fairyland roses
mean love and happiness," he said. "Little girls should be happy all the
day long, and not wet the world with their tears. There are tears enough
already"--he said ponderingly--"tears in the centre of the earth."

Opening out of the hall on either side were huge furnaces. Here the
Kobolds were busy smelting the ore, and preparing the materials for the
more skilled workmen. Here too were little cupboards with shelves into
which the costly vases were put, in order to be burnt hard like china.

The heat was so intense that Hugo and Elsa could only just peep in. It
seemed to them as if the little men must be roasted alive; but the
Kobolds were used to it, and found it quite cool and pleasant. They
swung their hammers and chattered away at the same time, the busier the
merrier; they were never idle or tired of their work.

A young dwarf page entered the hall and announced that the carriage was
ready. In another moment Hugo and Elsa found themselves standing in the
forest in the moonlight. A carriage stood ready for them drawn by six
stags. King Reinhold had dispensed with the ceremony of leave-taking; he
hated fusses, and wanted to smoke his pipe in peace.

Hugo recognised the stags; he had fed them in the winter from the
windows of the forestry; they knew him too, and nodded their gentle
heads.

O what a ride that was home through the warm September night! They saw
neither spirit nor goblin; no fairy marvel was revealed to them; only
the strong, sweet scent of the firs, the dark, weird shape of the trees,
and the stars that shone through the branches!

They held one another tight by the hand, and leaned back on the soft
cushions; they said nothing, they felt as if they were in a dream.

Presently they heard the noise of a little brook that was hidden in the
dark trees, and shortly afterwards they turned a corner and saw the
little village of Elhalten before them, peaceful and still in the early
morning light.

Elsa recognised her home after all, and called to the stags to stop.
Then she kissed Hugo and laid her little cheek against his and said:
"Good-bye, darling," and then she slipped into her house, and it all
seemed quite natural. You may imagine _how_ delighted Elsa's mother was
to have her baby girl in her arms again. There was such a kissing and
hugging as never was before!

Meanwhile Hugo drove up the steep side of the KÃ¼ppel in the rosy light
of the early morning; luckily he met no one on that lonely way. Once he
thought he saw a white form standing at the end of the path, like a tall
woman who waved her arms and beckoned. But when he looked more closely,
it was but the growing light of day through the trees, and not Mother
Holle, or the Wood-woman, as he had imagined. The stags galloped along
swiftly in spite of the rough road, and soon stopped before the door of
the forestry. There everyone seemed still asleep; not a sound was to be
heard. Hugo stroked the gentle heads of the stags and bade them
good-bye, and they vanished suddenly in the thicket of the KÃ¼ppel.

With the first rays of the sun Hugo's mother awoke, and was most
astonished to find that she had slept all night in the kitchen.

"That's what happens, when one's husband is away," she said stretching
herself and shaking her clothes. "What has become of Hugo?" she thought
suddenly, and felt anxious. She went quickly upstairs to the bedroom,
but there lay Hugo snugly curled up in bed with rosy cheeks and tumbled
curls, his nose buried deeply in his pillow.

As she came in, he roused himself and said: "Mother, I have been to
fetch little Elsa. She is home again"--then he turned round and fell
fast asleep.

The next day the news reached them that little Elsa had really been
found.

"Why, how curious, my boy dreamt it last night," said Mrs Forester.

"She was left at her parents' house at about four in the morning, so I
heard," said her husband, who had just come home.

Elsa's parents always believed that she had been stolen by the gipsies;
it was strange that they should have sent her back so soon, without
asking for a reward. Moreover the child was richly dressed; that was
also a queer thing; her clothes were the wonder and admiration of the
whole village. A blue silk frock, and shoes with shining buckles; never
had such a finely dressed child been seen in Elhalten before.

The simple folk never dreamt that the buckles were real diamonds and
worth a large sum of money.

When Hugo and Elsa met again on the following Sunday, you may be sure
that they had much to talk about, at least when they were left alone
undisturbed by grown-ups!

Although the fairy gifts were invisible to all save the children
themselves, it seems that they had an influence on them as they grew
older.

Elsa became a sweet, loving little person, the sunshine of her home--so
she was called--and very, very seldom did anyone see her crying.

Hugo was a quiet, shy boy; but he seemed to observe everything and
people said of him: "Hugo has his eyes open; he will make his mark in
the world some day." So the children grew up happy and good, and what
can you want to know more about them than that?




THE WITCH'S GRANDDAUGHTER


PART I

In a green valley between two mountain-slopes lay a little village
crowned by the Castle of Eppenhain, that stood on the mountain-side,
built on projecting slabs of rock.

The quaint old houses of the village with their red, slanting roofs, and
black-beamed walls, made a pretty picture in the May sunshine as Count
Karl of Eppenhain rode through the stone-paved highway, mounted on his
white steed decked with scarlet fringes. The lilac bushes were in
flower, the air was sweet with their scent, the laburnums hung out their
"gold rain" between the houses, the cherry-trees in the little gardens
shed their blossoms like snow.

At the farther end of the village was a house somewhat larger than the
peasant's cottages, with many gables and corners. This house was
surrounded on all sides by a thick briar hedge. The Count knew that it
had belonged to an old woman who was said to be a witch. There she had
lived all alone, save for her seven cats, her seven ravens, her
poultry--famous for the remarkable size of the eggs--and her little
granddaughter, Babette.

Count Karl had heard that the old woman was dead; for there had been a
great fuss about her burial. The villagers had said that as she was a
notorious witch, she ought not to be buried in consecrated ground; but
as the old lady had left money to the church, her tombstone was erected
after all in the little churchyard. The village boys declared that they
had seen her riding on a broomstick over the church spire; but the Count
did not believe such tales. He wondered what had become of the child;
she was the prettiest, as well as the most mischievous and ill-behaved
child in the village.

As the Count came up to the house, he heard voices shouting and
scolding. Then he saw a strange hunting scene. The hunters were not men,
but women with sticks and brooms, and the creature pursued was neither a
hare nor a fox, but just a little girl.

Yes, it was little Babette, the witch's granddaughter. She was leading
the fat peasant women a fine dance. They were quite unused to running,
and were obliged to stop every few minutes to pant; then Babette danced
just before them, made naughty faces, and (oh, fie!) stuck out her
little red tongue. Her hair blew over her head in the fresh breeze, till
she looked like some tall flower with curling petals. Sometimes she
stopped and shook her little fist at her pursuers; then off she flew
again. She knew every nook and corner of the garden, and that was to her
advantage.

The Count paused, laughed, then blew a blast from his horn.

Instantly everyone stood still as if they were living pictures.

"Hi! Ho! Come here, good folk!" he cried.

The women came at once, wiping their hot faces with the corner of their
aprons, puffing and blowing like so many fat seals. Babette stood at a
safe distance, but near enough to hear all that went on.

"Please sir," said one of the women with a curtsy, "as your Lordship
knows, the child's granny is dead and buried. Four days has the child
lived here all alone, never a bite or sup has she had; she will die of
starvation. (Here Babette laughed.) She hides in the bushes like the
wild cat that she is!"

"Babette, little Babette, come here, child," he called, interrupting the
old woman's narrative.

She came at once in obedience to his gentle command. She gave him one
glance out of her deep brown eyes, lifting up her long black lashes, and
his heart was captured at once. He was very fond of children, but he had
none of his own. Here was a beautiful child that seemed ready made for
him. Not one of the women before him really wished to keep her; for they
feared her, and the supposed power of her dead grandmother.

Meanwhile the child stood by the Count, and began to stroke his fine
embroidered sleeve; finally she slipped her little hand into his. This
settled the matter.

"Well, well, we must see what is to be done for the child. Meanwhile I
shall take her up with me to the Castle. She seems to have made you all
rather hot," he remarked mischievously to the reddest and stoutest of
the women.

"A devil's brat, I call her!" she muttered in return, between her teeth.

"Hush," said my Lord indignantly, "she looks more like a little angel,"
and, indeed, at his kind words her small face had become very sweet.

As he mounted his horse again and lifted Babette to place her before
him, she began to cry bitterly.

"Why, little one, what ails you?" he said. "Are you frightened?"

"No-o-o-o-o-o," said Babette, "but I don't want to go away from my
_beau-ti_-ful home!"

"You shall have a far more beautiful home, and everything that you can
want, shall be yours," he said. "Why, you would have starved there
alone, you poor little thing!"

"Oh no!" said Babette, "for Lucky--she is my pet hen you know--always
laid the biggest eggs for me; then I make a little hole and suck them
so. (She tossed back her curly head.) Then I am never hungry or thirsty.
O, who will feed Lucky, and all the baby chickens; and my cats?" she
continued, and began to cry again.

"We will fetch them all up to the Castle," said his Lordship
consolingly.

The road wound upwards and upwards, until they reached at length the
gateway of the Castle. The heavy gates stood open to receive them. There
was a pretty terraced garden in the front, where peacocks strutted up
and down, who nodded their heads as if they knew Babette.

A dog sprang out barking to meet his master. Count Karl patted his head;
then he lifted Babette from his horse, and led her by the hand into the
Castle. "Welcome to Eppenhain, my little maid," he said, formally, but
kindly.

Her little heart beat fast; for she was timid, like all wild, untamed
creatures, and did not know what might happen to her next. The Count
drew back the heavy curtain that hung before the entrance to a room; and
there in a deep window niche sat a lady dressed in a rich green velvet
dress with puffed sleeves, and a gold chain round her neck. She was
working at embroidery on a frame. She sprang up at once, as her husband
(for it was the Countess herself) entered the room, and uttered a cry of
surprise as she saw the child.

"Why, what dirty little thing have you picked up? Send her away again at
once," she said imperiously. "Don't touch me, child," as Babette
attempted to stroke her grand dress.

Now the Count had not noticed that Babette was very dirty, that her red
pinafore hung in rags, and her hair had not been combed for many a day.
He was somewhat taken aback, and saw that he had been rash.

"She shall be washed and properly dressed, and _then_ you will see," he
said. He dared not tell her his plans at once. He sent for his old
nurse, who had brought him up as a boy, and gave the child into her
care.

The poor woman soon had her hands full, I can tell you! You might as
well have tried to dress a hare as Babette! She _would_ not stand still
for a second, and as for a bath, she seemed to be quite afraid of it.
However, several maids were called, and Babette was bathed in spite of
kicks and screams. She was no sooner in the water than she began to
splash about like a baby, and to enjoy herself finely. It was almost as
difficult to get her out as to put her in! Some old clothes that had
belonged to the Count's sister, were produced. Babette thought them very
fine, and seemed quite pleased, she stroked the old nurse's cheek,
chucked her under the chin, and sprang up and down violently on her
knee, "nearly cracking my old bones," as nurse related afterwards. Her
curls were the most trouble; it would take more than one day's brushing
to set them in order.

Meanwhile Count Karl had been explaining to his wife that he meant to
adopt Babette, and bring her up as his own daughter.

"A witch's offspring without a family pedigree," exclaimed his wife,
"must I be mother to a witch's brat?"

Just then the "witch's brat" entered the room, making a funny bobbing
curtsy, as nurse had taught her to do, just outside the door. Very
pretty she looked in her low-necked, white-embroidered frock, with the
cherry-coloured sash, her face flushed after the bath. Even her Ladyship
was bound to acknowledge that she was quite a lovely child.

"What is your name, child?" she said condescendingly.

"I don't love you," said Babette, and stuck out her tongue.

"Babette," said the Count sternly, "if you are a _good_ little girl, and
do as you are told, you may stay here with us, and this lady will be
your mother, and I your father. Then you will be brought up as a lady
instead of becoming a little heathen and wild girl of the woods."

Babette stood still a moment, as if she were considering the matter;
then she gravely kissed his Lordship's hand. The Countess extended her
lily-white fingers, and Babette kissed them as well, but timidly; for
she feared a rebuff.

Just at this moment a noise of scratching and miewing was heard at the
window.

Babette flew to open it, and in walked--what do you think?--seven cats
with their tails in the air rubbing themselves comfortably against the
window-pane.

"O my dear Fotchen, dear Silverpaws, how glad I am to see you!"
exclaimed Babette, and she kissed them all.

"_What next?_" said the poor Countess, holding up her hands in horror!

In a few minutes there came a rap at the window, seven times repeated.
These were the ravens. However, they did not venture into the room; they
were afraid of the big gun that stood in the corner. They flew straight
up into a tall fir-tree, and there they chattered away as usual, hidden
by the dark branches.

The funniest sight of all was the arrival of the poultry. The cocks
walked first with an air of importance and authority; the baby bantams
sat on their mothers' backs; the whole procession toiled up the hill to
the Castle and entered by the yard gate. The servants watched them with
astonishment; they too said: "What next?" However, no one grumbled, not
even the Countess when she heard of it; for such guests were welcome.
The old witch's hens were renowned for the size of their eggs; they had
often been bought for use at the Castle.

Now the clock struck seven.

"High time for little girls to have their supper and go to bed," said
her Ladyship, and nurse was called, and carried Babette off again.

A beautiful wooden cot, painted white and gold, stood in the room where
Babette was to sleep. It was still called the nursery; for the Count and
his sister had slept there as children.

Nurse persuaded her to let five of the cats sleep outside in the barn;
but she begged so hard to have Fotchen and Silverpaws that nurse sent
for a bundle of hay, and the two pussies slept in a corner of the room
to keep her from feeling homesick.

Babette stole out of her bed at six o'clock the next morning. She
dressed herself in haste; she was so anxious to see her new
surroundings. It seemed to her like a wonderful dream, or like one of
the fairy stories that her old grandmother had so often narrated to her.

Yesterday, little, wild Babette, whom no one cared for, and everyone
scorned; to-day, the Count's own daughter. She would try and be _so_
good, never naughty any more. She smoothed her hair a little with her
fingers; washing she did not think necessary. Then she went down the big
oak staircase followed by her two pussies. When the young servants saw
her, they began to tease her unmercifully and to pull the cats' tails.

Then Babette grew very angry. "Leave my cats alone, will you?" she said.
She stamped her little foot, made ugly faces, and used bad words.
Finally she escaped from her persecutors into the garden. Here she was
alone. She sat down and cried with rage and sorrow. She had meant to be
so good; but it was very hard when people were so horrid!

However she heard a cock-a-doodle-do from the hen-house, and ran off
there, forgetting her troubles. She was greeted by a chorus of melodious
voices. They made such a noise that they woke my Lady out of her
comfortable early-morning doze. Lucky had laid an immense egg. She
rolled it with pride to the feet of her young mistress, who promptly
began to suck its contents. The ravens flew down to greet her, and she
stroked their glossy plumage.

The five cats were still shut up and miewed bitterly. Babette luckily
met one of the gardeners who opened the door of the barn and freed the
captives. They followed her into the big kitchen with the shining copper
pans, purring and rubbing themselves against her legs. Babette coaxed
the cook till he gave her seven saucers of milk; then there was a great
smacking of lips.

When nurse awoke as usual at seven o'clock, she was frightened to find
that her little charge had vanished. "What a child to look after in my
old age!" she groaned. "And yet she is taking too! How sweet she looked
curled up in the old cot." She soon found out from the servants what
Babette had been doing; so the child was seized upon, washed and brushed
again, and dressed in a stiff frock with white frills.

Quite sober and respectable our little wild girl looked when she went
downstairs after breakfast to see my Lord and Lady in the dining-room.

She sat on the high, straight-backed sofa, and played with the carved
lions' heads, and had never a word to say for herself until the Count
produced a doll that he had rummaged out from among some old treasures.
It was yellow from age; but its frock was of satin, and it had on
little gold shoes. To Babette, who had never had a doll of her own, it
seemed very lovely indeed. "Is it _really_ for me?" she asked in tones
of ecstasy.

She was perfectly good all the morning, playing with it, washing its
face, dressing and undressing it, and putting it to bed as little girls
love to do.

At dinner she shocked the polite company by putting her food into her
mouth with her fingers; forks and spoons she did not know how to manage.
So she was sent to have dinner with the servants who made fine fun of
her again, till she flew into a passion and declared with many tears
that she would run away. Then they were frightened lest my Lord should
hear the noise, and soothed and petted her till she was quiet again.
They did not mean to be unkind; they were only stupid, and thought her
tempers amusing.

Well, the days went on, and Babette became more gentle and docile, and
gave up many of her wild ways. She saw but little of the Countess, but
she grew to admire the grave, silent lady, and to long for some response
to her affection. My Lord was Babette's best friend and protector in all
her childish troubles. Everyone said that he was quite infatuated with
the child. He would play ball with her in the garden, "regardless of
his knightly dignity," as his wife remarked.

Babette knew all the animals about the Castle and ruled over them like a
little queen.

She would go up to the proud peacocks and say imperiously: "Spread out
your tails, or I will smack your silly heads!" and they obeyed her
meekly at once.

She had a pet frog in the pond, and once when the gardener was scolding
her for breaking some of his beautiful lilies, she popped it down his
neck, to his horror and disgust! For this she was whipped and put to
bed. I think she richly deserved it--don't you?

The garden at the back of the Castle led into the dense forest by which
the mountains were covered. Babette would sit on the stone wall and gaze
into the deep shades, as if she could see things there that were
invisible to others. She knew how to call the deer. One day she enticed
a fine stag into the garden. She made a garland of cornflowers and
ox-eye daisies, and threw it over his antlers; then she sprang on his
back, holding a red foxglove in her hand for a whip, and galloped round
the garden, singing and shouting: "Look at me, look at me! I am the
Queen of the fairies!"

The Countess herself owned that she had never seen a prettier sight; but
then she sighed deeply, and said to her husband she feared all was not
right with the child.

The Count shared her fears to some extent, and nurse had orders never to
let her out of her sight.

Nurse had several times seen a strange man watching Babette from over
the wall as she played alone in the garden. She too felt nervous and
anxious about her little charge.


PART II

Years passed by, Babette grew into a tall and charming maiden. She
learned to read and write, and to play on the harp. She could even speak
a little French, which was the fashionable language of the Court in
those days. So that with these accomplishments she was considered a fine
lady, far above the village children, who had formerly despised her.

One fine evening (she was then about sixteen years of age) she was
walking with her old nurse in the forest, not far from the Castle,
picking bilberries, and singing to herself songs of her own composing.
The wood was very still; not a leaf stirred. The setting sun shone out
behind a beech-tree, making a brilliant star of iridescent colours that
dazzled her eyes. She heard a sudden noise as of a cough: the bushes
near her rustled. She felt frightened and called out: "Nurse, nurse," in
trembling tones.

As she spoke, a man sprang out of the wood and seized her by the arm.
Nurse began to scream; but the man raised the stick he had in his hand,
and she stood as if turned to stone.

Babette's courage always rose to emergencies. She looked the man over
from head to foot. He was dressed in green, with a red feather in his
cap. His hair was dark and curly; his eyes were large and would have
been beautiful, but that they had a wild and sinister look that Babette
did not like, and squinted slightly. She seemed to remember his face;
but where or when she had seen him before, she did not know. Her first
thought was that he must be a wizard like one of those her grandmother
had told her stories about.

"Who are you?" he said, shaking her slightly.

"I am Babette, daughter of Count Karl of Eppenhain," said Babette
proudly.

"A Count's daughter--a fine tale--the witch's granddaughter you mean,"
he said with emphasis, and Babette shuddered. "Come along with me,
child!" he continued, "you must follow me now, and serve me well and
cook my dinners. I knew your old grandmother and have often seen you as
a child; a little imp you were," he said. "Now it is high time you
learnt to be useful; they will only turn your head, and teach you
rubbish up there at the Castle; you must come along with me now." Then
he turned to the poor nurse, and said, "In half an hour you will be free
to return to the Castle. Adieu!" He fixed his strange eyes on the nurse,
who swooned away, and thus she was found exactly half an hour afterwards
by the housemaid, who had followed her to say that supper was ready.

You may imagine the consternation at the Castle. The poor Countess who
had been so cold to Babette, seemed to feel it most. She sat and cried:
"O Babette, come back, come back, my dear, and I will be a real mother
to you, indeed I will."

The Count immediately took steps to recover her. The forests were
searched through and through by his men; but not the slightest trace
could they discover.

The seven ravens said: "Caw, caw," and set off at once in search of her.

The next day Fotchen and Silverpaws and the other cats disappeared.
Lucky and several of the old witch's hens were also missed.

It was evident that they had all followed Babette, and that she must be
alive somewhere; but where, that was the question. Where there is magic
at work, it is always a difficult matter.

One clever youth remarked that if one could find her pets, why, then one
might find Babette.

But this brilliant idea was not of much use, as they were _all_ lost.

Meanwhile Babette followed her strange guide with many misgivings and
sad sinkings of the heart. They had not gone far when they came to a
cottage in the forest, surrounded, like her granny's garden, by a briar
hedge.

Now I must tell you that Babette had fallen into the power of a reputed
wizard, and he had the power of making everything within this briar
hedge invisible and intangible to those outside. So that poor Babette
would be more safely imprisoned there than in an iron-barred fortress.
She did not realise this at first; she grew to understand it later, when
she became more acquainted with the wizard (or Mr Squint-eyes, as
Babette called him) and his ways. The hedge was so thick and high, and
the thorns were so huge, that it would have been impossible for Babette
to think of squeezing herself through it, and running away.

The wizard parted this hedge with his wand; it closed up thick and close
behind them as they entered.

The cottage garden was laid out in patches of vegetables. Not a flower
was to be seen in it; but there were fruit-trees with ripe apples, and
pears, plums and medlars; for it was the early autumn. They entered into
the little parlour which seemed dark and gloomy to Babette. Mr
Squint-eyes tossed off a mug of beer that stood on the table, and told
her to be off to bed. The poor girl was hungry; for bilberries are not
very satisfying and it was supper time; but she crept up the narrow
stairs, too much frightened to say a word. She found a tiny room with a
white bed in it, a looking-glass, very dim and old and uncanny-looking,
with candlesticks on either side, also a primitive washing-stand.

As she began to undress, a sense of fear and loneliness came over her.
She thought of her happy home at Eppenhain, and of the Count, and hot
tears began to fall. However, she was accustomed to look at the cheerful
side of things. "They are sure to find me to-morrow," she said to
herself; she knew she could not be far away.

The next morning she was awakened by a loud knocking at the door. The
horrid man who had stolen her, poked his head in, "Get up, get up, you
lazy bones," he said, "and see about my breakfast."

Babette hurried downstairs and found a small kitchen, with a door
leading into the garden. There was a heap of dried wood just outside the
door, and, after many attempts, she succeeded in making the fire.

She filled the heavy iron kettle from the pump in the yard, making her
pretty frock quite black.

"That's right, that's the way that women should work," said the wizard
coolly.

Babette felt indignant and thought that he might offer to help her, but
not a bit of it. There he stood, leaning against the door, smoking his
long pipe, the picture of laziness.

"Please where is the coffee?" said Babette.

"Use your eyes and you will find it," said her polite host.

Then she saw a jar on a shelf labelled "Coffee," and near it the
coffee-mill.

Babette ground the beans till she was red in the face. Then she waited
for the water to boil. Whilst she was attending to the coffee, rolls and
butter appeared on the table and a blue and white china coffee service.
The table seemed to have laid itself; for Babette was sure that the man
had never moved from the door. Now breakfast was ready. They sat down
together, the wizard saying never a word, but lifting one eyebrow at
times in a peculiar way that made Babette feel very uncomfortable.

After breakfast he went out of the house saying: "Clean the house, make
the beds, cook the dinner."

"But there is no dinner to cook," said poor Babette.

"Find it," was all the reply she could get out of him.

Now Babette had not been remarkable for obedience and docility, and if
anyone had spoken to her like that at home, she would have rebelled at
once; but she felt instinctively that her safety here lay in doing
exactly as she was told. The man was half-mad she feared, and if she
aroused his wrath, he might do her bodily harm.

The tears came into her eyes; she felt quite in despair; but she was a
brave girl and determined to make the best of things.

The vegetables in the garden occurred to her. She would cook some
carrots; that was easy. Stewed plums would do for pudding; but what
about the soup and the joint?

At this point of her deliberations a hare was thrown over the hedge.
This settled the question. Evidently the man did not wish to starve.

"But how shall I get its fur off?" thought Babette. "Bah! I shall never
be able to skin the creature!"

Just then she heard to her joy a "caw caw," seven times repeated, and
there she saw her dear ravens sitting on a tree just outside the garden.

Now the limit of invisibility did not exist for the witch's favourites.
They flew at once to Babette; she told them her troubles, and showed
them the hare.

"That is an easy matter," said the ravens, "the hare has seven skins; we
are seven ravens, each of us will take off one skin, and may we have the
pickings?" said the greedy fellows.

"Anything, anything you like! Please take it away and bring it back
again all ready to pop in the pot!" said Babette.

"Potted or jugged hare famous!" said the ravens, and they laughed
hoarsely.

"Be quiet, be quiet, or the wizard will catch you!" she said in a
warning tone.

Now the dinner was all ready on the stove. Potatoes she had dug out of
the garden. "Hare and carrots and stewed plums, what can anyone want
more?" she thought, and felt very proud. But suddenly soup occurred to
her. How could she make soup? She had heard that soup was made of bones
and water; but she had no bones, and those nice little halfpenny packets
for making soup out of nothing were not invented in those days.

She put on some hot water with a few carrots and a little chopped
parsley in it and plenty of pepper and salt. She tasted it, as a good
cook should, and said to herself: "Not bad, I have tasted worse."

She laid the table, and punctually at one o'clock the man came in.
Babette trembled. He proceeded at once to business; that is, he sat
down to dinner.

Soup came first, which was unfortunate. "Bah!" he said, making a
horribly wry face, "what stuff, child, do you want to make me sick?"

"No-o-o," said poor Babette.

"Never make such soup again, or I shall fetch my sister, and she will
cook _you_," he said with a terrible look.

However the hare was tender, and when a pot of red-currant jelly
produced itself, seemingly from nowhere, it was quite a fine dinner.

The carrots were hard, and "not scraped," as the wizard said severely.
"Plums too much sugar."

But in spite of all this grumbling she felt immensely proud of her
morning's work. The house was not cleaned; neither were the beds made;
but this he did not seem to notice. He lay on the sofa by the window,
covered himself up with a bear skin, and snored loudly with his mouth
open.

Babette made up the fire, and put the kettle on to boil for tea. Then
she strolled out into the garden. She climbed up into a pear-tree. From
her perch in its branches she could see far into the woods. She wondered
when her friends would come and rescue her.

Then she saw to her delight Lucky and some of her favourite cocks and
hens wandering about in search of her. They came scuttling up at once.
She held up one finger to enjoin silence. She feared that her capturer
might take a fancy for roast fowl if he should see them. So they hid
under the hedge.

"Now I can make scrambled eggs for supper," thought Babette joyfully.

Fotchen and Silverpaws had likewise no rest when their mistress was
gone, and they too set out in search of her. When they reached the briar
hedge, Babette was indoors making tea. They began to miew and made a
great noise.

"The old woman's cats, by Thor!" said the wizard. "They know a thing or
two. I'll go and let them in." So saying he again parted the hedge with
his wand, and let them through. Although Babette was very pleased to see
them, she felt a little anxious as to their welfare.

However the wizard scratched their heads, and was quite affectionate to
them. He had, it seemed, a partiality for cats.

Babette felt a little happier now that her pets were with her; yet her
heart was sore. She thought of her lovely house, of her kind, good
foster-father, and of all her friends, and the tears stood in her eyes.

Several weeks passed away, and Babette cooked and scrubbed every day in
fear and trembling, like a regular little Cinderella. Being German, she
was used to helping in the household, and was not so inexperienced as
many English girls would have been. But never a word of praise did she
get from her queer companion; but if anything were amiss, then he opened
his mouth and scolded the poor girl roughly.


PART III

A young man was returning home after a day's hunting. He was the son of
the knight of a neighbouring castle, and his name was Sir Rudolf of
Ruppertshain. It was a hot afternoon; the sunlight made a chequered
pattern through the forest trees. His bag was heavy with game, and he
whistled merrily as he strode between the oak-trees and bracken fern. He
had a light heart and an easy conscience, few enemies and many friends,
and added to these advantages was the exhilarating feeling of youth and
perfect health.

Suddenly he stopped and looked around him, startled. He heard a sweet
voice singing. The notes were clear and distinct as those of a bird, and
yet it was no bird. Who could it be in this lonely spot? He could
distinguish the words of the song as he held his breath to listen:

 "A lonely maiden, I,
  Sit here and sob and sigh;
  No man my face can see,
  Ah, who will rescue me?
    O lack-a-daisy-me!

  O wasted life of mine!
  Here must I sadly pine;
  My young life hid must be
  From all humanity.
    O lack-a-daisy me!

  O were a knight so bold,
  As in the time of old,
  In days of chivalry,
  He would deliver me!
    O lack-a-daisy-me!"

Rudolf's eyes were trained by hunting. He searched the woods carefully
round that place, and peered behind every bush and tree; but nothing was
to be seen. His heart beat fast, this was a real adventure. Surely if a
wood-nymph or fairy were to appear to him here in this lonely forest, it
would hardly seem strange.

So he summoned up his courage and addressed the wood-spirit as he
thought. "Who are you? Where are you?" he said. "Be you wood-sprite or
fairy, I fear you not. I am ready to do your bidding; for your sweet
voice and your distress have touched my heart: appear, O appear!"

Babette (for of course it was she) trembled with excitement. This was
really a chance of escape. She had seen the young huntsman from her
perch in the pear-tree, and had made up the impromptu song. She thought
it was even more original than her cooking. Now she answered eagerly:

"Alas it is impossible for me to appear unto you; for I am as invisible
as if I had on Siegfried's cap of darkness. I was stolen by a horrid
wizard when I was walking in the forest with my nurse. Surely you have
heard of me?"

Now of course Sir Rudolf had heard of Babette,--the story of whose
kidnapping was told all over the country, and became more wonderful with
every telling. Some people said that the devil himself had carried her
off; this was really unkind; for Babette, though lively, was not a bad
girl, as we know.

"Are you Babette, the witch's granddaughter?" said the young man
hesitatingly.

"O don't, don't say that, I want to forget that!" said Babette, and he
heard a slight sob. "I am the adopted daughter of Count Karl of
Eppenhain, and O, a wicked wizard holds me here invisible under a
powerful spell. Just think," said Babette crying again, "I slave for him
all day and cook and do all the house-work, and never a kind word or
look do I get from him in return. It is a shame. O dear! O dear!"

"Please don't cry, I really cannot bear it, when I cannot even see you
to comfort you," said Rudolf tenderly. "Tell me what to do! Shall I
shoot the wizard?"

"No, of course not; besides, he is invisible, too. You might walk
through us all, and notice no difference, so subtle is the spell," said
Babette.

Rudolf was one of those specially gifted mortals in whom the sense of
things unseen is as clearly developed as the senses of sight and
hearing. He never doubted Babette's reality, though I think a more
up-to-date youth would certainly have done so, and have thought that his
imagination was playing tricks with him. He felt much distressed and
perplexed, but could think of no way out of this strange dilemma.

But an inspiration came to Babette.

"Go to Mother Holle," she said, "if you really wish to help me. She was
an intimate friend of my grandmother's, and she is a powerful fairy and
can perhaps help us. What is your name, brave youth?" she continued.
"Sir Rudolf of Ruppertshain," he answered. "Why, then, I know your
mother quite well; but you were away travelling with your father, when I
visited your castle. But quick, we must not delay matters by
conversation, though it is _dreadfully_ nice to talk to a real human
being again." Her voice sounded near and yet far away; "a curious kind
of conversation," Rudolf thought it was.

"Where can I find Mother Holle?" said Rudolf. "And will she not drop
pitch on my head? I should be no good at shaking feather beds, you see!"

"Nonsense, she won't expect you to do anything of the sort. She is very
kind and friendly; she lives on the Rossert Mountain, quite near to your
Castle. Hush, hush, go now! my tyrant is waking up; if he were to
suspect us! Go!--go!"

A complete and somewhat unnatural silence followed, like one of those
awkward pauses in the conversation when we entertain stiff callers for
the first time.

Then Rudolf took the precaution of marking the position of the trees in
that part of the woods.

Three tall fir-trees raised their heads among the beech and oaks. He cut
a cross [image: anti-clockwise swastika] thus, on each one of them,
because trees are so deceptive. This mark is the old symbol of the
Mithras cult, two axes placed sideways signifying the striking of fire.
It is an old sign known and respected by the fairies; so he hoped that
the good folk would see it and further his quest.

On one of the firs the ravens were assembled. They caw-cawed seven times
to indicate their willingness to lend Rudolf their aid.

The wizard looked at Babette closely that evening. The new-born hope,
perhaps, too, the sight of the handsome stranger had given an extra
colour to her cheeks. "I may have trouble with her yet!" he said to
himself, and cleared his throat with a rumbling sound.

I must tell you that the cocks and hens had betrayed themselves. They
were silent all through the night, but when the dawn broke, they could
not resist one cock-a-doodle-doo! Then the wizard chuckled and brought
them in; but nothing had happened to them as yet.

Babette lived during the next days in a state of suppressed excitement.
She felt that something _must_ happen for good or evil; but she did not
know what. Patient waiting! a hard lesson for all of us to learn, but
harder still for a maiden of seventeen years who had been kept so long
in that dull hole. She had passed her birthday in that horrid place!
just think of it, and not one birthday present did she get. She made up
for it afterwards by having two birthdays at once; but it was not
_quite_ so nice.

Meanwhile Sir Rudolf had turned homewards pondering on his strange
adventure, and fully determined to seek Mother Holle's aid. Should he go
first to the Castle of Eppenhain and tell Babette's foster-parents that
he had found out where Babette was imprisoned? He felt that, credulous
though they were in those days, they would only laugh at him, and
consider the story as outside the range of possibility. They might even
suggest that a cask of Rhine wine had clouded his intelligence; no, he
would go home to Ruppertshain Castle and have supper, and think it over.
So he returned home, and was so silent and dreamy, and his appetite,
which was usually of heroic proportions, was so small that his mother
felt quite anxious about him.

"You are not bewitched, Rudie dear?" she asked anxiously, just as we
might inquire if he were a little upset.

"I am not sure, mother, maybe I am!" he answered to the good lady's
dismay.

After sprinkling him with various herbs, she insisted on his drinking
some nasty aromatic tea when he went to bed. As she had put some
spider's legs in it and a few choice things of that sort, Rudolf asked
to be allowed to take it upstairs with him. Then I regret to say he
deceived the good lady by pouring it out of the window. I rather think
that you or I might have done the same thing under the circumstances,
though it was undoubtedly wrong.

The full moon was shining into the little window in the gable of the
turret. He shook off the very natural sleepiness and fatigue consequent
on his night's hunting, took off his soiled clothes, and dressed
himself in his fine velvet Court suit with the beautiful lace on the
collar.

He opened the little window, squeezed himself (it was lucky that he was
slight for a German knight) through the iron bars, and climbed on to the
roof with some difficulty, not to say danger. Then he crawled
noiselessly along the Castle walls, fearing to be challenged by the
warder of the Castle on his nightly rounds. But the warder was just
enjoying his seventh glass of lager beer, and was not very keen on the
look-out.

As he dropped outside the walls, his favourite dog began to bark and beg
to go with him; but Rudolf did not dare to let him out for fear of
creating a disturbance.

He soon gained the little path which led through Eppenhain, and then
through fields to the woods that clothed the Rossert. Great clouds had
obscured the moon; but he was not afraid; he was so used to the woods
and could distinguish one creature from another simply by its movements.

In his hand he carried a dark lantern. A rough path covered with rocks
and stones led to the summit of the mountain. As he walked cautiously
along, a bat hit him in the face as it blundered along. "Hi, ho, steady
there, old fellow!" said Rudolf. He now entered the part of the woods
where the beeches and oaks grow so closely together that at midday the
sky seems green, rather than blue. The moon shone out suddenly, and he
saw by its light a gruesome-looking head without a body that seemed to
grin at him from among the undergrowth. His heart stood still for a
moment, and then he laughed at his fears; for he saw that it was only a
grotesque old tree-stump, such as one so often sees in the woods.

Suddenly he saw a bright light through the trees, as if one of the
bushes were on fire, or was it merely the brilliant moonbeams shining on
a wet clearing?

For a moment all was still; then lightning played across his path,
revealing a huge clumsy-looking giant who stood with club uplifted in
the way, looking as if he would dash his brains out. Brave though Rudolf
was, he did not wish to court danger; so he turned aside into the woods
hoping to find another path before long that was not thus barricaded.
Then voices seemed to mock him and to laugh at him, and he had the
unpleasant sensation of dark shadows, moving as he moved, shadows
unaccompanied by substance.

The rain came down, pouring, drenching rain, such as the forests love.
In a few minutes he was wet to the skin, as wet as if he had plunged
into the river with his clothes on. Naturally his vanity was to blame
for this; in his stout hunting clothes and thick leather boots even a
deluge could not have wetted him through. To add to this, the air was
close and stifling, and he had lost his way. All this for the sake of an
unseen maiden. What if she were as old and ugly as FrÃ¤ulein Kunigunde of
whom Heinrich von Kleist has written? Somehow he felt that was
impossible; but even if it had been so, his natural gallantry would not
have deserted him, and we will hope that he would still have sought to
deliver her.

A Christian knight is ready to help all women, be they young or old,
rich or poor, plain or pretty.

The rain had ceased; but there was a sense of something oppressive in
the atmosphere. An owl with eyes that looked like live coals glared at
him from the branch of an oak-tree, vanishing as he approached. A fox?
No, it was too large for a fox; it was a wolf (there were really wolves
in the Taunus woods in those days!) came up to him snarling. Rudolf had
his gun ready, but the creature moved away into the darkest shades,
snarling and growling as it went.

Altogether I cannot say it was a pleasant walk. I do not think any one
of us would have enjoyed it all alone at the dead of night, do you?

At this moment came a flash of lightning that struck down a tree just
before Rudolf's eyes. He crossed himself involuntarily and muttered a
paternoster.

A lull followed the storm; the heavens were clear again. Rudolf made out
by the light of his lantern a triangular spot made by three footpaths
crossing. It was bare of all vegetation; black ashes were heaped up in
the middle as if gipsies had lately lit a fire there.

An irresistible impulse made him enter this triangle, though he felt as
if long ghostly arms were trying to hold him back.

No sooner had he stepped on to this spot than he fell into a deep sleep
or faint. When he awoke, he saw a wonderful light near him, and in the
midst of the light which seemed to radiate from her presence, was a
beautiful lady, with long rippling fair hair.

"You are safe now in my kingdom," she said. "You have passed the
boundary between the good and evil powers, and have left the dangers of
the night behind you."

"O can you tell me where to find Mother Holle, beautiful fairy?" he
said.

"Easily enough, for I _am_ Mother Holle!" she answered. "I know why you
have come here, and I am ready to help you." She took him by the hand,
and he leapt to his feet, making a low bow to the lovely lady. All the
evil dreams that had perplexed him, fled as the night before the day,
and he could have shouted hurrah! for joy and gladness.

He had the unshaken confidence in the final victory of good over evil,
that is so necessary to help us to any measure of success in this world
with its chequered lights.

He walked with Mother Holle a little way, till they came to an arbour
made of honeysuckle and wild roses, surrounded by banks of evening
primroses, round which luminous moths were fluttering. Into this they
entered, and she sat down and gazed at him, till he was quite
overwhelmed with her beauty. He had expected to see an old witch
hobbling along with a stick and to have feather beds to make! Feather
pillows, indeed, there were in the arbour, very cosy and soft. It was
delightful to have a chat with such a woman in such a place, even if
there were no Babette in the world.

Mother Holle began to speak, her voice sounded like the murmur of the
fir-trees.

"I have heard that pretty little Babette has fallen into the power of a
bad man. He stole the magic book from her grandmother's house at a time
when the old lady was ill and feeble, shortly before her death. He has
been only able to make out a few of the spells--that, for instance, for
rendering things invisible. He is not a real wizard, so that if you
obtain the book, the power will be yours. But I strongly advise you to
have nothing to do with magic; it is very dangerous; but to return the
book to me, to whom, in fact, it rightfully belongs."

"Have no fear of that," laughed Rudolf. "I don't want it, I would not
touch it with the tongs if I could help it."

"Now listen carefully to my instructions! At the foot of one of the
fir-trees, grows a red toadstool, spotted with white. On it sits an ugly
old toad. Take this handkerchief (she gave him a lovely gauze scarf),
wrap the toad in it, and cast it to the ground. Pull up the toadstool.
Then the whole place will become visible, and you will be able to
consult with Babette as to how to overcome old Squint-eyes, as she calls
him.

"Hold this candle alight in your hand"--she gave him the young pointed
top of a fir-tree--"it will keep off evil spells. When you have overcome
the man, bind him with this grass." So saying, she gave him a bundle of
silvery woodland grass. "Then tie him up to the tallest of the three
fir-trees and leave him to us. We will punish him according to his
deserts, and teach him to behave better in the future."

"Can you tell me anything about the fair young lady herself? Is she
really the granddaughter of a witch? I could well believe it; for
verily she has bewitched me; but who were her parents? I wish to know
for her own sake," asked Rudolf anxiously.

"The old woman was really her nurse," said Mother Holle. "It is true
that the woman had fairy blood in her veins and was learned in magic,
but she never used her powers for any evil purposes, and as for riding
on a broomstick, she abhorred such practices. Babette is the
granddaughter of the great Baron of Siebenbergen. The Baron brought his
children up strictly as became their rank; but his youngest son ran away
from home, and married a village maiden much beneath him in rank.

"His father was exceedingly angry and refused to acknowledge her. The
young wife died when Babette was born. The father went off in despair to
the wars. He entrusted the tiny baby to the care of an old woman who had
formerly been his own nurse. This old woman, who was spoken of later as
Babette's grandmother, had been nurse to the children in Siebenbergen
Castle for many years; but she had been dismissed suddenly in her old
age, because evil tongues had denounced her as a witch. The Baron did
not believe in the charge, but, nevertheless, he was obliged to send her
away. He had his own reputation in the country to think of, and the
charge of witchcraft was no light one in those days, and not so easy to
disprove. He gave her a handsome pension, and a comfortable house and
troubled himself no more about her.

"Babette's father lost interest in life on the death of his dearly
beloved peasant wife. He fought recklessly in the front of the battle,
and fell, covered with many wounds. His body was brought home for burial
and there was a grand funeral in Siebenbergen. Everyone praised his
heroism, and lamented his early death, but no one inquired after his
peasant wife, or knew of the existence of his baby daughter.

"The notice of the marriage and the certificate of Babette's birth are
to be found in the church of Eppenhain, all duly registered and
complete.

"The old nurse became very feeble and was hardly fitted to bring up such
a wild, high-spirited child as Babette. That is all I can tell you; you
must find the papers, and test the accuracy of the story for yourself."

Rudolf was deeply interested; his heart beat fast. Babette became more
and more interesting, wrapped round in a web of romance. He wanted to
ask more questions of Mother Holle; but she faded slowly away. As she
vanished, a voice said: "Adieu, follow the light path, and nothing can
molest you."

A long stream of light shone out from where she had stood and illumined
the way through the woods. It shone on and on in one great bright path,
like the moon shining over the sea. Rudolf reached home walking like one
in a dream, his head full of strange and marvellous fancies.


PART IV

Rudolf awoke rather later than usual; for he was thoroughly tired out.
His mother did not feel so concerned about him when she saw the amount
of breakfast he consumed; but he was still silent and abstracted. His
adventures seemed to him like a wild dream. It seemed almost absurd to
seek for the three firs; but yet an irresistible longing led him
thither.

On the stroke of twelve at midday he stood beneath them, and recognised
his own sign, and O joy! saw the toadstool with the toad sitting on it.

Without a moment's hesitation he took the handkerchief ("which was in
itself a proof of the reality of the story," he said to himself) and
seized the horrid shiny toad (how it wriggled and squirmed like some
evil thing!) and cast it to the ground where it sprang into a thousand
pieces. These pieces took root in the earth, so to speak, and came up
again as a multitude of toadstools quite wonderful to behold. Perhaps
you may see them if you ever come across this spot in your excursions to
the Taunus Mountains.

Then Rudolf took hold of the red and white toadstool on which the toad
had sat. Surely never before had a fungus been so firmly planted in the
earth! The whole ground seemed to shake and tremble as he tugged at it;
trees were uprooted in the forest; the earth moved up and down like the
waves of the sea. At last it was out, and bump down fell Rudolf. One of
the great fir-trees fell as well, luckily in another direction, or he
might have been crushed beneath it.

When he got up again, he saw to his joy a little red-roofed house and a
pretty maiden sitting in a pear-tree.

Babette had been watching him all the time; but she could not make out
what he was doing. She had nearly fallen off the tree as he pulled up
the toadstool. Now she climbed carefully down and came to the hedge and
their eyes met. Need I say that they fell in love, or, at any rate,
Rudolf did, at first sight. The hedge parted to let him through. Perhaps
this was caused by the fairy candle, or perhaps it was Mother Holle's
doing--who knows?

"Hush, he is asleep, you have come just at the right moment," said
Babette.

"We must secure the magic book first of all," said Rudolf, holding the
fir-branch firmly in his hand, "and would you kindly light this candle
for me?"

Babette laughed. "A funny candle," she said.

"A _fairy_ candle," he whispered, "to keep off evil spells. Mother Holle
recommended it."

Babette felt inclined to dance for joy. "Can you really _see_ me?" she
whispered. "O how untidy and ragged I am, you must think me a perfect
fright!"

"I think you are the most beautiful lady I have ever seen," said Rudolf
sincerely, and Babette blushed at the compliment, and felt very grown-up
and important.

"I will light the candle for you at the kitchen fire. Come, we will go
together softly and try and get the magic book. I know where it is. It
is under the sofa where Old Squint-eyes is asleep. Follow me. Throw all
that grass away," she said in her old imperious way.

"Let me give it to you to hold," said Rudolf. "It is also a gift from
Mother Holle, and may come in useful."

They walked together towards the house, Babette holding the bunch of
silvery grass, and entered the kitchen. Here Babette lit the
fir-branch.

"It smells just like Christmas; there must be good times coming for poor
little me," she said.

Then they peeped into the parlour, and there was Mr Wizard fast asleep
in spite of the earthquake. Rudolf could hardly help laughing; he looked
such a funny sight with his mouth wide open, his nose very red, and his
hair hanging over his face.

Babette lifted up the bear-skin rug and pulled out the heavy book; but,
as soon as she touched the book, the wizard awoke and seized her by the
arm and sprang to his feet with many curses.

When he saw Rudolf, he let go of Babette's arm and tried to seize the
young man. Rudolf was fully prepared and threw him off with all his
force. A wrestling match began, and it might have ended badly for
Rudolf; for his adversary was tremendously strong and agile, but that he
had unexpected assistance. The ravens flew in at the window, and beat
themselves against Rudolf's opponent, nearly blinding him. The cats
stood on the cupboard, with their backs up and hair bristling ready to
spring if necessary. The cocks and hens crowded on the window-sill in
war-like attitudes.

Meanwhile the fumes of the fir-candle which Babette had lit, filled the
room, and Mr Squint-eyes could not abide the smell of burning fir. He
grew weaker and weaker, and more and more confused, and at last Rudolf
threw him down with such force that he was partially stunned.

Rudolf then took the woodland grass from Babette, and as he touched it,
it wound itself in his hands into strong cord. He bound the man up with
Babette's assistance, and gagged him with Mother Holle's handkerchief.

The two of them then lugged him into the wood, and tied him up to the
biggest of the fir-trees as Mother Holle had directed. Then they fetched
the magic book and placed it under the uprooted fir-tree, which
instantly stood up again as if nothing had happened, burying the book
beneath its roots.

They looked at the man they had tied up, bound like a martyr to the
tree. He could not curse and swear as his mouth was stopped up; but he
rolled his eyes and squinted so violently that he was horrible to look
at.

Then Rudolf and Babette ran off together. Breathlessly they ran and ran.
Babette was afraid Old Squint-eyes might wriggle out after all; he was
so thin and wiry, and she had no fancy for serving him any more. Not
until they came to a main road through the woods leading to Eppenhain
Castle, did they pause to look at one another.

Then impetuous Babette (she was half a child still, you must remember)
flew at Sir Rudolf and gave him a kiss. She turned red and white when
she realised, what she had done. "I couldn't help it," she said. "You
are such a _dear_. I am so very, very grateful to you for all you have
done for me, an unknown and even unseen maiden."

"Please, don't apologise, dearest lady," he said. "I liked it very, very
much. Won't you give me another?"

"_Never_," said Babette firmly. Subsequent events however caused her to
revoke this determination.

Rudolf did not answer, but offered her his arm, which she took shyly,
glancing at him from time to time out of her deer-like eyes with the
long-fringed lashes. Ragged and untidy as she was, she looked like a
princess; and he in his fine clothes, soiled and torn as they were,
looked nevertheless like a real fairy-tale prince!

He took her straight home to Eppenhain Castle, and you may imagine the
excitement there! The Count clasped Babette in his arms and could hardly
speak for emotion. Then he turned to Rudolf saying: "We shall never be
able to reward you enough."

"I shall only want one reward, and that is the little maiden herself,"
said Rudolf.

The Countess wept and cried over her darling child, and said she would
never scold her any more.

Nurse said: "Well, Miss Babette, you do look a fine sight to be
sure--and to come home with such a pretty young man, too! Come upstairs
with me, and let me make you clean and tidy." And this Babette was only
too glad to do.

A great company of retainers were sent out by the Count to capture the
so-called wizard; but they were unable to find either the fir-trees with
the mark on them or the man, or the wood cottage. Neither Babette nor
Rudolf set eyes on them since that day. I cannot say that they were
altogether sorry.

The papers proving Babette's parentage were found to be in order, and
her father's name and fortune became hers, so that she was not poor,
despised Babette any more--the witch's granddaughter--but a maiden of
good rank and birth with pin-money of her own.

A short time afterwards there was a grand wedding in Eppenhain, and two
happier mortals never lived than Rudolf and Babette on that day, and,
let us hope, for ever afterwards!




HOLIDAY ADVENTURES


PART I

O it was so hot, so hot; the earth was well-nigh parched up, and
moreover the use of water was restricted in the town where the children
lived. The flowers in the little garden were drooping for want of
moisture, and the trees began to shed their leaves as if it were already
autumn instead of July. The schools were obliged to close early; the
children came home at eleven o'clock instead of at one, and announced
that they had heat holidays. For there is a regulation in Germany, if
the thermometer is over a certain degree in the shade, the school is
closed for the rest of the day. The high schools do not have classes in
the afternoon; the children have six hours lessons in the morning, with
intervals of course for recreation and drilling. Some headmasters douche
the walls of the school-building with cold water, and then examine the
thermometer; but children as well as teachers think this a very mean
thing to do.

The school holidays commence at the beginning of July, not in August, as
is the case in England. This year the two little girls, Trudel and
Lottchen, and their mother were going to stay at a farm, which was
situated high up in the midst of the most lovely woods. Trudel, I must
tell you, was ten years old, and Lottchen eight; they both went to the
same school. This farm was an inn at the same time; but very few people
visited it during the week, and by nine o'clock the house was empty of
guests; for the woodways were hardly safe at night. It was easy to get
lost in those vast forests where one path so closely resembles the
other.

It was a long climb up from the station; the children began to flag, and
mother was tired. Father had come with them to settle them in; but he
could not stay longer than the first day or two; for his holidays did
not begin till August. He invented all sorts of games for getting along
quicker; he deposited chocolate on stones or tree-stumps by the wayside,
which was discovered by the children with a shout of joy. Then just as
Lottchen's legs were beginning to ache badly, and she was nearly crying,
he helped them on by telling the story of the assassination of Julius
CÃ¦sar. Trudel had read about it in her history-book at school; but it
was written in such dreadfully historical language that she had not
understood the story; she found it thrillingly interesting as father
told it. Lottchen said that she could never have treated her little
friend Hansi so cruelly, and that she hated that man Brutus.

At last they reached the end of the woodpath, and there lay
Waldheim--for so the farm was called--before them. A big dog sprang out
to meet them. Mother and Lottchen shrank back from his rough welcome;
but Trudel was soon ordering him about, and did not seem in the least
surprised when he obeyed her. His name was Bruno. The farm consisted of
a group of buildings; two houses, one for the farm labourers and the
maids, the other for guests. There were also large barns which had been
newly erected, and a pond.

Round the houses were fields belonging to the farm, and then everywhere
woods, woods, woods. Blue mountain-crests were visible above and beyond
the woods.

The children partly unpacked the boxes themselves; for mother was still
so tired. They even took off her boots and put on her shoes for her,
like kind little daughters, and Trudel put away their clothes neatly in
the cupboard. Then they all went downstairs joyfully to a cosy tea,
which, I need hardly say, they enjoyed very much after their long walk
and journey.

After tea all fatigue vanished, and the children flew out to inspect the
premises for themselves. The farmer had two boys of about the same age
as Trudel and Lottchen. Their names were Hermann and Fritz. Hermann was
very shy; he hid himself at first and peeped out at the strange girls
from corners of the yard or barns, rushing away when they caught sight
of him. However Trudel soon coaxed him out, and they all played ball
together.

Then Hermann and Fritz took the girls round the farm. They went first
into the cow-shed; there were fourteen cows, seven calves and a bull.
The cow-herd was a strange, uncanny-looking fellow with a great shock of
red hair, and a very red face. He shouted at the children in a dreadful
hoarse voice; they felt frightened of him at first, and thought he was
mad; but they soon found out that the poor fellow was only deaf and
dumb. The cows were his intimate friends. He had christened each one of
them when they were born: Sophie, Emma, and so on. After they had gone
home again, the children learnt to their pride that he had named two new
calves after them, Trudel and Lotty.

There were four horses that were used for driving and ploughing.
Lottchen was especially fond of horses. She liked to see them come home
from the field by themselves and walk straight into the stable with a
noble air, like a lord returning to his castle. Her favourite horse was
called Hector. Lotty noticed one day that he was left alone in the
stable, whilst the other horses were ploughing in the field. The
stable-door was open, and after a while to her surprise he walked out.
"What is he going to do? I hope he will not run away and get lost,"
thought Lotty anxiously. But no, he just walked leisurely up to the
field where the other horses were hard at work and looked on! It was
evidently dull in the stable and he wanted a little distraction. When he
was tired of watching his friends, he returned to the stable, where he
was found innocently munching hay as if nothing had happened.

Pigs of course were there too in plenty; they ran about everywhere,
grunting and snorting; also geese and chickens. Trudel liked to drive
the geese into the water; she was fond of commanding, as her little
sister sometimes knew to her cost.

The maids were two peasant girls who wore very short full skirts and a
great many petticoats. Their dress was a modification of the wonderful
Hessen peasant costume. These girls were ready to do anything for the
children. Gustel, who was chief waitress and chambermaid at the same
time, said that she had never seen such pretty "kindersche" (little
children) in all her life before!

The only other guest in the house at this time was a Herr Baron; he told
wonderful stories of his adventures in South America.

"Drought," he said, "yes, that's very bad, but floods may be worse. I
have known years of labour destroyed in one night by a flood. All the
beautiful fields of grain, our sole wealth. I lived at that time with my
married sister and her family, and we had only just time to rescue
ourselves and the children. I was the last to leave the house which we
were never to see again. I could not decide which of my possessions to
take with me, so I seized up the skin of a puma that I had shot on
another memorable occasion, and bore it off on my shoulder, like Jason
carrying the golden fleece, and that was all that was left of my
personal property. Ah! it needs patience to conquer the elements," he
said.

Altogether the Herr Baron was a wonderful character; he seemed as if he
were not real, but had stepped out of a book of romance. He delighted in
reading English stories; he was especially fond of "She" and "King
Solomon's Mines." The children believed that he smoked day and night;
for they had never seen him without a cigarette, except at meal-times.

He told father and mother the story of how he had had a bullet
extracted from his side that he had carried about with him for years. It
had struck him during one of the revolutions that so frequently go on in
South America. The bullet had recently set up inflammation, and a
dangerous operation was necessary to remove it. "Chloroform! not if I
know it," he said to the doctors. "Just you let me smoke my cigar, and I
shall be all right. I won't say 'Oh!'"

The doctors were naturally very astonished and demurred at this new
method of treatment; but he persisted in his determination, and the
cigar never left his mouth till the painful business was successfully
over!

The Herr Baron was a mysterious person; why he lived for months
together in that lonely spot, no one knew. True, he was fond of hunting,
and went out at nights with the landlord to hunt the stag.

There were hunting-boxes made of logs of wood, with steps that led up
into them, placed in different positions in the woods near the inn.

The children loved to climb up into them. A hunting-box made such a nice
airy room, they said; but mother was glad when they were down again
without broken limbs.

Mother was surprised when she entered the inn-parlour to find the Herr
Baron engaged in a game of quartette with Trudel and Lottchen and
Fritz. Indeed he was so sociable and kind and fond of children that she
thought it was a pity that he had none of his own.

On the pond near the house were two most remarkable-looking boats. These
Hermann and Fritz had made themselves with the aid, I believe, of the
Herr Baron. They had a long stick and punted about in them on the water,
and they managed them quite cleverly. To Trudel and Lottchen they seemed
to suggest Robinson Crusoe and all sorts of fine adventures.

One day when mother was reading a book which absorbed her attention, and
so was safe not to interfere with them, they thought, the children stole
down to the pond. Hermann and Fritz were waiting for them. It was a
pre-conceived plan. "Come along and get in," they shouted to the girls.

"I daren't," said Lottchen. "Mother would be so cross; she has forbidden
us to go near the water."

"You are surely not going to spoil the fun," said Trudel. "Come along;
I'm going to get in first. I can swim, you know!"

"But not in mud and water-weeds," said Lottchen wisely.

The boys began to laugh at them.

"Why, you're funky, I do believe; the pond isn't really deep anywhere,"
they said.

So with beating hearts the children got into the boats, Trudel with
Fritz, and Hermann, who was the eldest of the party, with Lottchen. It
was splendid, quite a real adventure.

"Sit still in the middle of the boat," said Fritz; "I think we had
better keep near the bank."

"It's going down on my side; O dear, what shall I do?" said Trudel. "I
don't like it! I want to get out."

"You're a bit too heavy and upset the balance," said Fritz. "Very well,
then, get out!"

Trudel tried to do so; but the boat was very wobbly. It was not so easy;
her foot slipped, and in she stepped with one foot into the deep mud.
She grasped convulsively hold of a willow bush that grew on the bank.

Meanwhile Hermann, seeing the predicament they were in, jumped out of
his boat, leaving poor Lottchen quite alone. She began to scream with
all her might and main, and she could make a fine noise when she chose.

Mother heard the cries though she was some way off and flew to the pond.

The maids who were bleaching the linen in the meadow, came running to
the rescue as well, as fast as their legs could carry them.

Lotty was soon helped out of the boat. Trudel had rescued herself with
Hermann's assistance, and she looked very red and ashamed of herself.
She said she did not wish for any more Robinson Crusoe adventures of
that sort. Mother naturally gave the children a good talking to; but she
thought they had been punished enough this time for their disobedience,
by the fright they had had.


PART II

THE TREE MAN

There was a tree in the garden that was ideal to climb, and mother
allowed the children to do so, for she had been very fond of climbing
herself when she was a child.

They wore old serge skirts and jerseys that they could not spoil.

This tree made a splendid arbour, or house with a suite of rooms.
Lottchen sat up in the branches like a little bird, and like a little
bird she sang all the songs she knew. From this tree you could see the
mountain called the Stellerskuppe and the blue sky through the
tree-stems on the summit. At sunset time, the sky behind the trees
turned a golden colour, till it looked like a picture of fairyland.

It was a fine view, but still you could not see from here the famous
oak-tree, where the little green tree man lived. This was ten minutes'
walk from the farm.

Trudel and Lottchen saw him first on a wet day when they had set out for
a walk in spite of the rain, with their green waterproof cloaks on with
hoods over their heads, looking for all the world like wood-goblins
themselves. They were walking down a narrow green path, and mother was
some distance behind.

"Do just look, Trudel," said Lottchen. "I believe there is a little man
in that hollow tree!"

"So there is, he is smiling and bowing to us, let's go and visit him,"
said Trudel, always enterprising.

Lottchen hung back, feeling a little afraid; she was always on the
look-out for the unexpected, and yet was surprised when something really
happened.

"Come along, darling," said Trudel, grasping her smaller sister by the
hand.

They both distinctly saw the little man; they said they could have drawn
him afterwards, and indeed they attempted to do so as well as they
could. But as they approached the venerable oak, the little man
vanished, and all they saw was a strange green stain on the inside of
the tree, resembling a dwarf with a peaked hood on.

"Just look at this Gothic window," said Lottchen, proud of her knowledge
of the word "Gothic." "How nicely this tree-room is carved. I am sure
_he_ lives here; where are his little chairs and tables? I should love
to see them."

They peeped through a window or hole in the old tree and saw their
mother approaching.

"Mother, mother, here lives a real tree man; we saw him--didn't you?"

Mother smiled--what the children called her mysterious smile.

"You look like two little wood-men yourselves," she said. "Lottchen,
stand up straight in the hole and look at me."

Lottchen stood up just fitting into the green mark on the tree behind
her. She made a pretty picture, her laughing brown eyes with the long
eyelashes, her rosy cheeks, and the wind-blown hair straying from under
her hood.

"O look, Lottchen, here is a little basin of holy water, just like we
saw in the cathedral," said Trudel.

 "Wood water,
  Nice and brown,
  In a little cup.
  Wood water,
  Wood wine,
  Won't you drink it up?"

said a tiny voice that sounded like that of a wood-bird.

"Mother! did _you_ hear anything, mother?"

"Yes, darlings, the birds are singing so sweetly now the rain is over. I
have brought my camp-stool. I shall sit here and sketch the tree," said
mother.

"Do draw _him_," said Trudel, whose blue eyes were open wider than
usual.

"Him! Whom do you mean?" said mother.

"Why, the tree man, of course."

"Hum," said mother mysteriously, "we'll see," and she settled herself
down to sketch.

The children collected huge acorns, and laid them on a leaf in the
hollow tree. Then they stirred up the brackish "holy" water and put
their fingers in it.

"It smells like lavender and roses," said Lottchen.

"Well, you've got a funny nose; it smells to me like blackberry and
apple-tart," said Trudel.

"Ha--ha--he!" said a little voice again. Somebody was laughing. Where
could he be? Glancing round quickly the children saw a little man about
three feet high, dressed in green, wearing a long peaked cap with a
wreath of tiny oak-leaves around it. He looked very strong, although he
was small, and he stuck his arms out akimbo in a curious angular way
like the branches of an oak-tree.

"How did you know that trees were alive?" he asked the children.

They were embarrassed by the question.

"Why, of course we know they are not dead, unless they are cut down,"
they said.

The little man shuddered; then he began to wave his arms about wildly.

"_Let_ them try to cut me down, I'll knock them down. I'll fall on them
and crush their bones. I'll smash them like this stone!" Here he gave a
stone that stood near by, such a tremendous whack that sparks flew out
of it.

"Don't smash us, please, Mr Tree Man," said Lottchen trembling.

"No fear, little Miss Lottchen, no fear, you're a nice little thing, you
are; one can see that to look at you. You would _never_ cut me down,
would you?"

"Why, of course not," said Lotty.

"_I_ should not dream of such a thing either," said Trudel. "But may we
ask who you are?" Trudel continued, "You are surely not a tree?"

"Well, it's like this," said the little man; "I'm a tree, and the tree's
me!"

"_I_," said Trudel, correcting him, "would be more correct."

"Rubbish," said the little man, "Pedantic rot!--the tree's _me_, I
repeat. Every tree has its gnome or elf; they used to call us dryads in
old times; but nowadays people are getting so cock-sure of knowing
everything, that they can't see what is going on right under their
noses. Trees are never still," he continued; "they are always moving.

 "'Where there is movement, there is life,
   Where there is life, there is thought,
   Where there is thought, there is individuality.'

"Do you follow me? That is logically expressed."

"You forget we are only children, Mr Tree Man; you are talking too
grown-upy for us. Father talks like that sometimes; but then we don't
listen," they replied.

"Well," continued the gnome, "in every tree there either lives a jolly
fellow like me or a lovely lady fairy. Yes," he said in a sentimental
tone, "I, too, old and tough though I am, I, too, have known love."

"Who is she?" asked Trudel eagerly.

"Alas! I can never reach her; my old bones are too stiff and unbendable.
She is a graceful larch-tree in all the glory of her youth. You may see
her yonder!" He sat down and sighed deeply.

The children looked in the direction that the gnome had indicated, and
there they saw a larch-tree on which the sunlight had just fallen. It
was exquisitely dressed in a robe of delicate green and--was it only
fancy?--for one moment the children thought that they saw a lovely lady
with flowing tresses that gleamed golden in the sunlight, and large
starry eyes. As they gazed, she melted into the blue mist which shimmers
always between the forest trees.

"Now we must go home, children," mother called out, "before it begins to
rain again."

The children glanced round; their little friend had vanished, and no
trace was to be seen of the lady of the larch-tree. So they turned
reluctantly from the tree-house fully determined to come again very soon
to this enchanted spot.

"Mother, may we see your sketch?"

"Not now," said mother, "it's going to be a surprise."

"Did mother see him too?"

"Do you think so?" said Lottchen. "Mother's a fairy herself."

"I think," said Trudel, "she sees all sorts of queer things; but she
won't tell us everything she sees."

"It spoils some things to tell about them," said Lottchen. "I shan't
tell Hermann and Fritz about the tree man."

However, when she got home again, she could not contain herself. "Do you
believe in fairies and tree men?" she said to the boys.

"Of course not, that's all rot," said Hermann. "Like Santa Claus and
such things, just invented to stuff us up!"

"Santa Claus will never come to you any more if you talk like that; _he_
is _quite true_, I know. Trudel saw him come in last year when she was
in bed, and she heard him filling our stockings. Of course she did not
dare to turn round and look at him," said Lottchen.

"I don't say it isn't nice to believe such things," said Hermann
conscientiously, "but it isn't true; it's superstitious. You know quite
well, Trudel, who Santa Claus really is."

Trudel was silent; she was ten years old, and she had her doubts.

"But I've seen a tree man to-day," said Lotty.

The boys laughed.

"Don't try to stuff us up with such nonsense; we're not so green as your
tree man," they said.

Gustel, the maid, came in, and joined in the conversation. She supported
the boys' view.

"I don't care," said Lottchen, now in a high state of excitement. "My
mother knows a man--a very clever Irishman--a poet and a painter as
well, and he has often seen the fairies."

"Yes," said Trudel, "it's true he draws them just as he sees them with
rainbow-coloured wings."

"Well I never, you don't expect me to believe such things, do you?" said
Gustel. "Why, that's all lies, and it is very wicked to tell a lie!"

Lotty flew into a perfect tantrum. "How dare you say we tell lies; I
will tell my mother of you," she screamed, and threw herself on the
floor crying violently.

Mother rushed in, not knowing what had happened. "Lotty, get up at once;
tell me what's the matter, darling!"

"Booh!--booh--booh!--Gustel won't believe--booh, booh, booh--that you
know a man who has seen the fairies!"

Mother could not help laughing. "Don't be so absurd, Lotty. Of course
Gustel does not understand what you mean. Gustel," she said, "you are a
Catholic and believe in the saints; they saw very queer things too,
sometimes, didn't they?"

"O yes, you're right; of course, ma'am," said Gustel, feeling
embarrassed; for she had no arguments to support her disbelief in
fairies.

"Some people can see more than others," continued mother. "Now if I were
to tell you that I could see the old poacher or wild huntsman who used
to live in this house, riding through the yard on a moonlight night,
what would you say?"

"Lor, ma'am, if I saw him, I should die of fright," said Gustel, turning
pale.

"But you know that there are no such things as ghosts and fairies!"

"Yes, ma'am, very true, ma'am, it's rather confusing what you say," said
poor Gustel, feeling her head in a whirl.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a wonderful moonlight night. As father was still away, mother sat
by herself in the big bedroom, whilst the children slept in the little
room adjoining. There was a very high wind; the window-panes rattled;
the wooden shutters blew to and fro; the branches of the trees made
weird patterns on the ground. The moonlight was so white that the fields
and paths looked almost as if they were covered with snow. The
Stellerskuppe stood out black against the sky. As mother gazed, it
seemed to her as if strange creatures were abroad that night, driven to
and fro by that tireless hunter, the wind. Wild forms passed by and
gazed at her with deathless eyes; for a while she remained there
motionless, as under a spell. Then suddenly she remembered her joke
about the old huntsman of evil repute, who had formerly lived in this
farmhouse. Did his ghost haunt it still? Mother shivered; the nights
were cold up in the mountains, though it was such a hot summer. She
opened the door of the children's room and peeped in. To tell the truth,
she felt a little creepy, and longed for human companionship. There were
her darlings, sleeping soundly; but as she entered the room Trudel
turned round and flung herself on the other side of the bed, saying: "Go
away, go away, do not come near me!"

"Whom do you mean, darling?" said mother anxiously.

Then Trudel groaned and spoke again in her sleep. She uttered the
following deep and mystic words: "Gustel, bring in the shark, please;
mother can't eat the thimble."

Now, wasn't that a funny thing for a little girl to say in her sleep.
Mother was so amused that she wrote the words down on the spot, so as
not to forget them, and she troubled her head no more with thoughts of
the wild huntsman; indeed the spectres of the night vanished as they
always do vanish at a joke!

Some days passed, before the children visited the oak-tree again. When
they did so, they found that an enormous branch had been broken off, and
lay across the green pathway.

"O dear me," said Lottchen, "our _poor_ little man. I hope it hasn't
hurt him!"

"It must have happened on that windy night," said Trudel.

"It was my own fault, it was entirely my own fault," said a queer little
voice, and there was the oak-tree man sitting in his house smoking a
reed pipe. His arm was bound up with green fern leaves. "Yes, it was my
own fault; the wind excited me, and stirred my sap (that's my blood you
know)--I stretched out my arms towards her--one embrace--one blessed
moment in which to call her mine--and here you see me a cripple for
ever!"

"O _poor_ thing, we are so sorry for you," said the children.

"Never mind, it heals easily," said the oak man, "but, alas, my beauty
and my symmetry are gone for ever!"

"Your leaves are so nice and fresh; and your house is so pretty; why,
you have got furniture in it," said the children in astonishment.

"Such a pretty oak table and beautifully carved chairs; where did you
get them from?" asked Lottchen.

"I made them myself out of my own wood; it cheered me up a bit," said
the little man. "One must do something, you know; looks snug, doesn't
it? Ah, well--I have known love, that is something to be proud of; I have
experienced the most pleasing of human emotions. Have you ever been in
love?" he said inquisitively, looking at Trudel, who looked big enough
in his eyes.

"Why no, not exactly, we're only kiddies; but still we do love lots of
people, of course," said she.

"Your day will come, your day will come. Do not desire the unattainable,
but content yourself with the reachable," he said; "and yet ''Tis better
to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all,' as the dear old
poem says."

"He's getting grand in his language again; he _is_ a funny little man,"
said Trudel in a whisper to Lottchen.

"Stay," said the tree man, "I have a good idea; I will give you a card
of introduction to _her_, my beloved Lady Larch-tree."

He gave them an oak leaf with the words: "Edle Eiche," printed on it,
which is in English Noble Oak.

"You need not say anything; she will know it comes from me," he said,
sighing sentimentally.

Full of curiosity, the children turned to go to the larch-tree, which
was only a few steps further down the green pathway. The ardent lover
watched the children from the window of his little house. They knocked
three times on the bark of the larch-tree; and they were very pleased
when a door opened in the tree, and a lovely lady was revealed to them.
Her dress was of green, looped up with tiny pink flowers such as grow on
the larches in early spring; her hair streamed down like a soft veil
about her. She hardly seemed to see the children at first, when they
presented their cards. She took the oak-leaf cards and pressed them to
her heart.

"Heart of oak! King of the forest! for ever mine," she murmured, and her
words were like the sound that a little brook makes when it trickles
beneath dark forest trees.

"He sends you his love," said the children politely.

"You dear little things," said Lady Larch; "it was so kind of you to
come and call on me. So you understand trees and their language, dear,
dear, so young and so clever! _Would_ you like some wood wine?"

"Not if it is dirty water with caterpillars in it," said Trudel.

"O dear no, it is purified and refined; it is most delicious." So
saying, she handed each of them a large acorn cup full; and they drank
the contents.

"It does taste nice, dear fairy," said the children, "like what we make
ourselves at a doll's feast. May we ask you for some more?"

"No, no, it is very strong, and would get into your heads, and you would
find out all about.... No, I'm sorry ... but----"

"Children," said mother's voice, "where are you? I have been looking for
you."

"We have only been to call on Lady Larch, mother; she has shut her door
tight again or we would have introduced you to her," said Lotty.


PART III

They came home rather late that evening and found the farm in a great
state of commotion. The red-haired cow-herd was shouting and crying in
an unintelligible way; the house seemed to be deserted. They met the
Herr Baron also preparing to set out in a hurry.

"What's the matter? Where is everybody?" said mother.

"The silly old cow-herd has lost one of the best cows; it has strayed
off among the bushes, and may die if it is exposed all night. Who knows
where the poor creature may have got to in these vast woods?"

The search went on till late at night; the men, including the Herr
Baron, walked miles with their lanterns, but in vain. The deaf mute was
in a dreadful state of mind and kept crying out in his harsh,
disagreeable voice: "Not my fault--_Schimmel's_ fault." (Schimmel was
the cow.)

It was difficult enough to sleep that night; but when mother had at last
dropped into a light doze, it must have been about four o'clock in the
morning, she and the children were aroused by a great shouting and
disturbance in the house. They looked out of the window and--what do you
think?--there was the lost cow, who had returned after all of her own
accord. And with her a dear little black and white calf, who frisked and
bounded along as if it thought it was fine fun to be in the world on
this lovely morning. Now wasn't that a queer thing, children, queerer
than all the fairy stories you have read? for this story is quite true,
you must know!

       *       *       *       *       *

It was an exceptionally fine Sunday, and as father had come down to
spend the week-end, mother and the children were in the seventh heaven
of joy. It was not possible to go to church; for the nearest town was
two hours' walk away, and would be partly over fields that were exposed
to the heat of the midday sun. So father and mother and their two little
daughters went to the great woodland cathedral.

The service was on the Stellerskuppe; surely no one could wish for a
more beautiful place of worship. Mountain after mountain ranged in the
distance, some with rounded or knolled heads, others rising to a peak.
Lottchen called the most pointed one Mesuvius, because she always forgot
the "V."

As the children sat there and sang hymns, with their white Sunday frocks
on, mother fancied that eyes were peering at them from out the forest
depths. If they were merely those of the gentle deer, or if stranger
creatures still were watching them as if fascinated, she did not know:
she felt there were lookers-on. There is the old story of the God Pan
who played so divinely that all living things came to listen to him.
Perhaps there may be a stirring at times in the souls of the mysterious
dwellers in the forest that makes them yearn for immortality and gives
them a fuller sense of existence. So that all the woodland sang too at
that Sunday service.

On Sunday afternoon, father and mother wanted to go for a longer walk
than usual; but the lazy children petitioned to be left behind.

"You will promise not to go near the pond," said mother. "Remember it is
Sunday, and you have your best frocks on; you must not romp or climb
trees."

"O no, mother, of course not," said Trudel. "We'll stay in the garden
and promise to be very good."

When father and mother returned from their walk, the first thing they
saw was Lottchen staggering along with a stand of empty beer-bottles.

"Whatever are you doing, Lottchen?"

"Oh, mother, there are such heaps of people here this afternoon, and
there are not enough waitresses to serve them; so Trudel and I are
helping. Trudel has got such a lot of tips already; she has bought
chocolate with the money. Do tell her to divide it fairly with me!"

Mother looked round. The whole place was covered with tables and
benches; a number of gaily dressed people from the neighbouring town
were drinking coffee and eating cake or waffeln, a kind of pancake for
which the inn was celebrated.

"Mother, don't speak to me, I'm too busy," said Trudel. "I've been
waiting on those gentlemen; the maids were shy of them, so I said I
would go and ask what they wanted." She pointed out some young men in
officers' uniform, who had come from a military school. "I've got 6d. in
tips, and I spent it on chocolate."

"Well I never!" said mother, astonished at her daughter's prowess--"you
have turned into a waitress, and on Sunday afternoon too. Whatever would
your aunts say?"

"I think I had better tell you what the young men said to me," said
Trudel seriously. "They said I was a sweet little thing, and that if I
were older, they would fall in love with me. I laughed of course; I
could see they were only silly old stupid heads. I told them they had
not much taste; for their military school was the ugliest building in
all the town. They quite agreed with me about this, however, and then
they asked me who my father was, and when I said he was a professor,
they laughed till I thought they would burst. But now you must excuse
me, really, mother darling. I have promised to go into the kitchen and
wash up cups and saucers!"

The landlady could not praise Trudel enough. Such a useful little girl,
she does everything in a most orderly way and wipes down the table when
she has finished! "If ever you want her to learn housekeeping, pray send
her to me, I should be delighted to teach her," she said.

"Yes," thought mother, "and make a nice little slavey of her into the
bargain. No, no, our Trudel is not going to turn into a housemaid!"

If Trudel had been some years older, father and mother might have
objected to these experiences; but, as it was, they only laughed.


PART IV

As the world is full of fact and fancy, so is this story. Whether it is
based mostly on fact or on fancy we will leave to the German
philosophers to decide, but I have heard that they are doubtful on this
point, with regard to the world, I mean.

It was a magical evening. Trudel was so engrossed in a game of cards
with the boys that she could not be induced to come out; moreover she
had a slight cold and the evenings were chilly. A glorious sunset glow
illumined the sky as mother and Lottchen set out for their
never-to-be-forgotten walk.

"We will go up and see the fire on the heath; I love the smell of dry
pine wood burning," said mother.

"I love to see the fire dancing and crackling," said Lottchen. "How
still everything is."

"It is the calm of twilight. The wind usually drops in the evening,"
said mother.

"Look, look, over there by those dark woods there is something moving,"
said Lotty. "I think it is a white cat."

"A white cat! How queer that she should have strayed so far; she does
not belong to the farm, I know."

"Hush! perhaps she is not a cat at all--then she will vanish." And lo
and behold when they looked again, there was no cat there, though they
had distinctly seen it a minute before on the field at the wood's edge.

"She is really a witch, I believe," said mother, with the curious
expression on her face that Lotty knew so well.

Going further up the hill, they saw a wonderful sight. Twenty or more
peasant girls were busy working, hacking the ground, their faces
illuminated by the wonderful sunset glow. They wore short full peasant
skirts edged with bright-coloured ribbons, and each had a gaily coloured
scarf pinned round the neck and bodice.

We learned afterwards that they were preparing the ground to plant young
fir-trees on a clearing. Germans are so careful of their woods, they
replant what has been cut down, so that they have a great wealth in wood
that we cannot boast of in England. I believe that they would _like_ to
cut off all the dead branches in order to make the woods quite tidy! But
this would be rather too big a job even for the German nation to
accomplish!

A man dressed in green with a feather in his cap, and a gun over his
shoulder stood by watching the girls at their work.

He was a forester and seemed to act as overseer. He gave the signal to
stop work as the strangers (mother and Lotty) approached. The women hid
their tools under the dry heather until the next day, and then strapped
on the big baskets they carried on their backs, without which they
hardly felt properly dressed. They then marched along together, singing
a melodious song in unison. As they came to the cross-roads they parted
company; some went this way, some that; all kept up the tune, which
echoed farther and farther, fainter and fainter in the distance.

Before long Lottchen and her mother were alone; but they felt that the
ground they stood on, was enchanted. Mother said it was like a scene
from the opera. They watched the fire; how the flames leaped and
crackled; yet they were dying down. The fire made a bright contrast to
the dark fir-woods which formed the background to the picture. The glory
died from the sky; but yet it was strangely light; darker and darker
grew the woods near the fire. Suddenly Lotty espied bright sparks among
the trees.

"I do believe they have set the wood on fire," said mother.

"O no, mother, don't you see; let us crouch down and hide; it is the
fairies: they are coming to the fire."

The air was suddenly full of bright beings.

 "There is a wood fire on the hill;
  High on the heath it glimmers still.
  Who are these beings in the air
  With gauzy robes and flowing hair?
  Is it the wreathing smoke I see
  That forms itself so curiously?

  Nay, they alight: they form a ring,
  Around the flickering fire spring,
  And from those embers burning low
  They light their wands, they gleam, they glow,
  Like firework stars of rainbow hue,
  Green, yellow, orange, lilac, blue!

  Ah what a scene, how wild, how strange!
  The stars each moment break and change
  In thousand colours; look on high:
  Each slender wand points to the sky,
  Then waves and trembles: lo afar
  On lonely woods falls many a star!"

And all this Trudel had missed. It seemed too great a pity, with that
silly old card playing.

Spellbound mother and Lotty watched the fairies at their revels, till
Lottchen began to shiver.

"We really must go home," whispered mother. "Trudel will be anxious."

"Oh, but mother I want to dance round the fire with the fairies, and I
want a fairy wand with shooting stars," said Lotty almost aloud.

Suddenly it seemed as if the fairies became aware that they were
observed. They vanished away, and all became dark. Lottchen said she
could hear the sound of little feet stamping out the fire.

"Fairies, dear fairies, come again, do," said Lotty.

No answer, perfect stillness, not even a leaf stirred.

"Well, you are not so polite as our tree man, not half," said Lotty,
"though you are so pretty. Good night," she shouted.

There was a sound of suppressed laughter; then from hill and dale the
word "good night" was echoed all around. Spellbound, as if in a trance,
they moved toward the farm. Trudel was wild with herself when she heard
what she had missed.

"_To-morrow_," she said, but to-morrow is sometimes a long, long way
off, and the fairies did not show themselves again during these
holidays.

One of Lottchen's favourite walks was the echo walk, but she usually
came home quite hoarse after having been this way. The path wound below
the fairy heath on the incline of the hill; further down still were the
fir-woods through which the light shone.

"Angel-pet!" "Cherry-ripe!" "Cheeky fellow!" "You're another!" So Lotty
shouted the whole time, and the echoes came back so surprisingly
distinct that Lotty was sure it must be really the fairies answering
her. When you turned the corner of the hill, the echoes ceased. It was
too queer.

The next day Trudel distinguished herself again. Two great cart-loads of
swedes arrived that were to be stored up as fodder for the cattle in the
winter. Now the joy was to throw these through a hole in the wall into
the cellar. Hermann stood in the cart and Trudel threw the swedes to him
as the bricklayers throw the bricks to one another. Fritz and Lottchen
helped too; they had to take their turn and be very quick, as the hole
was small. Hour after hour this went on, till the children were as black
as chimney sweeps, and yet Trudel's energy did not fail. At last the
carts were empty, and only then did the little workers leave off, dead
tired.

Hermann could make curious heads out of the swedes, with eyes and nose
and mouth. If you put an old candle-end inside, they looked ghastly,
like some Chinese god. Lotty declared that they rolled about in the yard
at night and grinned at her, and that she did not like "heads without
people."

"But they _are_ so funny, Lottchen," said mother, and then she laughed
at them and was not frightened any more.

In the fields grew nice little buttony mushrooms. No one knew better
than the Herr Baron where they were to be found and how to prepare them.
Apparently he had lived on mushrooms in the wilds of South America. He
was very kind in helping the children to fill their baskets to take home
with them; for, alas, even the pleasantest of holidays must come to an
end; and there was only one day left. He discovered a treasure in the
field, a little mother-of-pearl knife, very old and rusty, and presented
it to Trudel. He told her to soak it in petroleum to clean it. That
knife was more trouble than all the rest of the luggage on the way
back, for Trudel made such a fuss about it, and dissolved in tears
several times when she thought that she had lost it.

To leave the beautiful cool woods, the fairies, the tree man and his
sweetheart, the cows and the geese and all the marvels of the country,
yes, it was hard; but home is home, and always turns a smiling face to
us after a long absence. How nice to rediscover one's playthings and
dolls. Trudel's first thought was always for her doll babies, and she
would rush upstairs, and embrace each one tenderly.

As the children drove to the station from the farm, they passed the
famous oak-tree, but no little man was to be seen.

"He's shy of the coachman, of course," said the children.

Looking back, they caught a glimpse of him in the distance, and shouted
and waved their handkerchiefs.

Hermann and Fritz were very sorry to say "good-bye" to their little
friends; but school began the next day, and they would not have so much
time for play then.

The landlady told the children a great secret before they left. "The
Herr Baron is going to be married next week," she said.

"Well, I am glad," said mother. "I hope she is very nice," and the
children echoed the wish warmly.

"She has lots of money, and is a countess, I believe," continued the
landlady.

"Well, I do hope she does not object to smoking," said Trudel, and they
all laughed.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Mother, you have never shown us your sketch," said Trudel during the
unpacking.

Mother laughed. "Where's Lottchen? I suppose she wants to see it too?"

"Here I am," said Lotty. "Oh, do be quick and show it to us!"

Mother held up the sketch. There was the hollow oak-tree, and standing
in it the little tree man himself just as the children had first seen
him, with his green peaked hood on.

"So mother really did see him too!" said the children.

Now this story disproves the common fallacy that only children can see
the fairies and forest folk; for how could mother have painted the tree
gnome unless she had seen him?


EVERETT AND CO. LTD., 42 ESSEX STREET, STRAND, LONDON




Transcriber's note

In the tale "The Engineer and the Dwarfs", a line is missing in
the original text; since this edition is apparently the only one in
existence, it has sadly not been possible to discover what the missing
section was. However, from the context it must be a greeting, perhaps
from the dwarfs' Committee.

Otherwise, missing punctuation has been silently added, and the spelling
of some names regularised. The word centuary was changed to centaury in
the sentence:

"Little harebells, and pink _centaury_ bordered the pathway."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Fairy Tales from the German Forests, by 
Margaret Arndt

